Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
SUFFICIENT LEVEL OF DESIGN
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Under the new Building Safety Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building (HRB), an
applicant must pass through three gateway points: Planning (Gateway 1)
(hospitals and care homes are excluded from the definition of a relevant
building); Building Control Approval (Gateway 2); and Building Control
Completion (Gateway 3). This process is summarised in the Building Safety
Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building.
1.2. This guidance sets out how an applicant, either the client or someone authorised
to act on their behalf, should approach the sufficient level of design detail for
Building Control Approval.
1.3. The design process is complicated and traditionally on large projects, it takes
place over a long period, usually overlapping with the construction process.
1.4. Historical issues with the previous Building Control regime included, amongst
others, that designs were often lacking in detail to evidence compliance with the
functional requirements of the Building Regulations 2010 (as amended), or
that the completed design would be compliant.
1.5. The new building safety regime for HRBs has brought a fundamental shift in the
principles of the Building Control Approval application process. Applicants are
required to provide significant design information before construction begins. If
done correctly this should not pose a problem to the success of an application.
1.6. An applicant should be clear on the level of design information required to
provide a robust Building Control Approval application to the Building Safety
Regulator (BSR) at Gateway 2, whilst still allowing for flexibility in the modern
design and construction process for a HRB.
2. SUFFICIENT LEVEL OF DESIGN DETAIL
2.1. An application for Building Control Approval should provide quality detailed
information that clearly and comprehensively demonstrates how the design and
construction of the HRB will comply with the Building Regulations.
2.2. A Building Control Approval application can seek either:
• Approval - Provision of sufficient design of the building to evidence
compliance with all applicable functional requirements of the Building
Regulations; or where appropriate
• Approval with Requirements - Provision of sufficient design to
evidence compliance that the building can and will meet with all
applicable functional requirements of the Building Regulations even
though certain aspects of the design detail remain outstanding at that
time and will be submitted later in accordance with an agreed plan.
Back to contents page Page 2