Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
BUILDING CONTROL APPROVAL WITH REQUIREMENTS
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Under the new Building Safety Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building (HRB), an
applicant must pass through three gateway points: Planning (Gateway 1)
(hospitals and care homes are excluded from the definition of a relevant
building); Building Control Approval (Gateway 2); and Building Control
Completion (Gateway 3). This process is summarised in the Building Safety
Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building.
1.2. This guidance sets out how an applicant, either the client or someone authorised
to act on their behalf, should correctly approach and manage the use of
Approval with Requirements for a Building Control Approval application
(Gateway 2).
1.3. Historical issues with the previous building control regime included, amongst
others, that designs were often lacking in detail to evidence compliance with the
functional requirements of the Building Regulations 2010 (as amended), or
that the completed design would be compliant.
1.4. Under the previous legislative regime, it was possible, under section 16 of the
Building Act 1984, to either pass, reject or, subject to the applicant’s consent,
pass plans with conditions.
1.5. Prior to the Grenfell Tower tragedy, Building Control had met the inadequacy of
some building designs to demonstrate the functional requirements of the
Building Regulations, with the use of the Conditional Approval mechanism to set
out conditions which were a list of omissions and solutions.
1.6. These ‘conditions’ at times amounted to providing a specification which is not
the role of a regulator. This played into the general misunderstanding that
Building Control took responsibility for ensuring compliance and thus led to
abdication of that responsibility from elements of the design/construction team.
1.7. It was not the legislation that was the problem but the way in which it was used.
Hence the mechanism remains.
1.8. The new Building (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) (England)
Regulations 2023 allow for decisions by the Building Safety Regulator (BSR)
in respect to applications for Building Control Approval to either be “Approval,
Rejection or Approval with Requirements” depending on given
circumstances.
1.9. Approval with Requirements is available for use by the BSR, where the
applicant is seeking Building Control Approval at Gateway 2, where otherwise an
application may be rejected. It is the applicant’s responsibility to present the
items to be considered for Approval with Requirements in a clear and
comprehensive proposal (plan) to the BSR for agreement.
Back to contents page Page 6