Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
SUFFICIENT LEVEL OF DESIGN
2.3. Approval with Requirements is available for use by the Regulator, where the
applicant is seeking Building Control Approval at Gateway 2, where otherwise an
application may be rejected. It is the applicant’s responsibility to present the
items to be considered for Approval with Requirements in a clear and
comprehensive proposal (plan) to the BSR for agreement.
2.4. Specific CLC guidance is provided on Building Control Approval with
Requirements and the recommended use of an Application Information
Schedule.
2.5. The baseline to any Approval with Requirements approach is that the initial
Building Control application needs to show sufficient information to
allow the BSR to be satisfied that the finished building can and will comply
with the Building Regulations even though certain aspects remain outstanding
at that time.
2.6. Design sufficiency needs to be taken to a point where performance to the
requirements of the functional requirements of the Building Regulations can be
confidently confirmed without having to have a particular product specified or
absolute final detailed drawings/documents provided. This is eminently possible
especially where there are several manufacturer’s products that have the
relevant tested performance and can be used in the layout and dimensional limits
set by the submitted building plans.
2.7. Approaching design in this way also aims to ease the regulatory burden on both
the applicant and BSR by reducing the need for multiple change records and
approvals that would be otherwise required during the construction phase.
2.8. If Approval with Requirements for an element or package is granted then it
remains the applicant’s responsibility to continue to plan, manage and monitor
the delivery of any remaining design elements during the construction phase in
accordance with the Construction Control Plan.
2.9. It is illegal for any work to commence before both a full design is submitted for
the specific Requirement and approval is given by the BSR to proceed on that
aspect of the work.
End of Note 02
Back to contents page Page 3