Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
APPLICATION INFORMATION SCHEDULE
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Under the new Building Safety Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building (HRB), an
applicant must pass through three gateway points: Planning (Gateway 1)
(hospitals and care homes are excluded from the definition of a relevant
building); Building Control Approval (Gateway 2); and Building Control
completion (Gateway 3). This process is summarised in the Building Safety
Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building.
1.2. The applicant, either the client or someone authorised to act on their behalf,
should submit and manage a new HRB - Building Control Approval application
(Gateway 2) online to the Building Safety Regulator (BSR).
1.3. An application for Building Control Approval should provide quality, detailed
information that clearly and comprehensively demonstrates how the design and
construction of the HRB will comply with the Building Regulations 2010 (as
amended). This should be done through:
• Identifying - every aspect of the project that requires compliance with
Building Regulations, including structural and fire safety.
• Clarifying - which standard, code or approach will be used to
demonstrate compliance, with an explanation of why it is the most
appropriate.
• Justifying - how the functional requirements have been met, with
clear and comprehensible narrative referring to suitably labelled plans
and drawings.
1.4. Design information for an application should be provided in an easy to navigate
framework aligned with the requirements of the Building Regulations (Schedule
1).
1.5. This guidance relates to the baseline design information that must be submitted
for a Gateway 2 Building Control Approval application.
1.6. It is recommended that an applicant uses and submits an Application
Information Schedule. This is not a required statutory document, but it is a
tool that can assist in navigating application information.
1.7. The Schedule can provide a clear and logical summary of all the design
information submitted. This can support the applicant, either the client or
someone authorised to act on their behalf, to submit a comprehensive
application. It also aids the BSR and appointed Multi-Disciplinary Team (MDT) to
navigate the design information in the application.
Back to contents page Page 12