Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
APPLICATION DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT AND SUBMISSION
3.3. At the Drawings and Plans stage on the portal, an applicant is now able to
upload sub-folders. Sub-folders should be created on an applicant’s own system
and simply uploaded when requested by the portal.
3.4. The number of sub-folders should be proportionate but there are no constraints
on sub-folder creation or the number of files within each sub-folder.
3.5. Annex 6A provides an example folder and sub-folder structure that may be used
through an Application Folder Structure and Contents Schedule.
3.6. Sub-folders can be any size but should only contain PDFs. Other file types cannot
be uploaded.
3.7. Sub-folder names should only use letters, numbers, spaces, hyphens and
underscores. Do not use special characters.
4. FILE NAMING CONVENTIONS
4.1. A file reference should be clearly identifiable.
4.2. A file must be:
• PDF format;
• Smaller than 1GB; and
• Named using only letters, numbers, spaces, hyphens and underscores. Do
not use special characters.
4.3. Use a clear file title describing what a document or plan relates to. The aim is to
avoid a file needing to be opened to identify what it is.
4.4. If a document is referred to in legislation, then use this exact wording as a clear
file name (e.g. Target Emissions Rating).
4.5. Non-statutory recommended documents (e.g. Application Project Brief) should
also be clearly titled.
4.6. Typical file names that should be used are:
File Titles - Statutory Documents File Titles - Non-Statutory Documents
Site Plan Application Folder Structure and Contents Schedule
Drawings and Plans Application Information Schedule
Competence Declaration Application Project Brief
Construction Control Plan Application Strategy
Change Control Plan
Mandatory Occurrence Reporting Plan
Building Regulations Compliance Statement
Fire and Emergency File
Partial Completion Strategy
Client Authorisation Statement
Back to contents page Page 21