Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
APPLICATION DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT AND SUBMISSION
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Under the new Building Safety Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building (HRB), an
applicant must pass through three gateway points: Planning (Gateway 1)
(hospitals and care homes are excluded from the definition of a relevant building);
Building Control Approval (Gateway 2); and Building Control Completion
(Gateway 3). This process is summarised in the Building Safety Regime for a
new Higher-Risk Building.
1.2. The applicant, either the client or someone authorised to act on their behalf,
should submit and manage a new HRB - Building Control Approval application
(Gateway 2) online to the Building Safety Regulator (BSR). This requires
submission of an application and supporting documents (and plans). The
documents required for a valid application are set out in Build UK - Validation
of Applications for Building Control Approval.
1.3. Clear and logical document organisation within the application submission not
only contributes to a clear and comprehensive application but provides an easy
to navigate framework for the BSR and their Multi-Disciplinary Teams (MDTs) to
assess compliance.
1.4. This guidance note outlines best practice for document management and
submission for a Building Control Approval application.
2. PRINCIPLES
2.1. Information for an application should be provided in an easy to navigate
framework aligned with the relevant legislation.
2.2. The document structure should set out a clear hierarchy of folders, sub-folders
and files.
2.3. A clear naming convention for folders, sub-folders and files should be followed.
2.4. Submitting more documents than is needed will not mean that the application is
better, in fact it may lead to the need for a longer assessment process.
3. USE OF FOLDER AND SUB-FOLDER STRUCTURES
3.1. The BSR online application portal has been updated with a new functionality, to
allow applicants to submit documents in a folder structure. This offers greater
flexibility on presentation of the application and allows related documents to be
clustered.
3.2. Within the portal, an applicant is prompted to upload the Accompanying
Documents as files into separate pre-set folders.
Back to contents page Page 20