Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
APPLICATION PROJECT BRIEF
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Under the new Building Safety Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building (HRB), an
applicant must pass through three gateway points: Planning (Gateway 1)
(hospitals and care homes are excluded from the definition of a relevant building);
Building Control Approval (Gateway 2); and Building Control Completion
(Gateway 3). The documents required for a valid application are set out in the
Building Safety Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building.
1.2. The applicant, either the client or someone authorised to act on their behalf,
should submit and manage a Building Control Approval application (Gateway 2)
online to the Building Safety Regulator (BSR). The documents required for a valid
application are set out in Build UK - Validation of Applications for Building
Control Approval.
1.3. The online application portal requires submission of documents and plans, and
the completion of a number of text fields, including Description of Work. This
is a compulsory field requiring a summary (free flow text, maximum 2000
characters) about the proposed project.
1.4. The purpose of the Description of Work field is for the provision of a clear and
concise summary of the key elements of the development. The BSR uses the
Description of Work to identify the correct people with the right skills, knowledge
and experience to join the Multi-Disciplinary Team (MDT) for the application i.e.
to Local Authorities or Registered Building Control Approvers when sourcing the
Registered Building Inspector (RBI) support and other expert resource that may
be required in assessing the application. The description text is therefore of
significant importance to support the engagement of the appropriate specialist
team.
1.5. To date, applications through the online portal have included a variety of inputs
for the Description of Work, some only provide basic text such as ‘8 storey
residential’. This is not sufficient.
1.6. It is recommended that an applicant uses and submits an Application Project
Brief with the main application. This guidance outlines a suitable approach.
Back to contents page Page 16