Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
NOTE 1: This guidance was drafted to support making an application for a Building
Control Approval Application for a new Higher-Risk Building (HRB) (Gateway 2). The
principles supporting a clear and comprehensive application for Building Control
Approval are common for all types of building work. It may, therefore, also be useful
for Building Control Approval Applications for work in an existing HRB in particular
category A work. Some of the elements may also be relevant for category B work.
NOTE 2: This document contains separate guidance notes. Each of these are
version controlled and dated. When updates are carried out, the specific guidance
note will receive a new version control number and date.
This guidance suite has been produced in collaboration between the
Construction Leadership Council, industry stakeholders and the Building
Safety Regulator. It provides the baseline principles to guide those
involved in submitting and assessing applications for Building Control
Approval for Higher-Risk Buildings (Gateway 2 applications).
This guidance may go further than the minimum you need to do to comply
with the law with regard to building safety.
About the Construction Leadership Council
The Construction Leadership Council (CLC) brings together all parts of the
construction industry and government. Its mission is to provide leadership and
coordination to enable the construction sector to improve its performance, benefiting
both the private and public sectors. By convening an industry partnership, the CLC
provides the means to address short-term and long-term issues that affect the
construction sector. The CLC’s four strategic priorities are: Building Safety; Net Zero
and Biodiversity; People and Skills; and Next Generation Delivery.
The CLC is co-chaired by Minister of State at the Department for Business and Trade
and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero, Sarah Jones MP and Mark
Reynolds, Mace Group Executive Chairman. The Deputy Co-Chair is Richard Robinson,
AtkinsRéalis, President – Asia, Middle East and Australia.