Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
Directory of Guidance
This document brings together a suite of guidance notes for Building Control
Approval Applications for a new Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2). All guidance
notes and wider information are summarised in the table below. Links are provided
for all content, and further information can be accessed via the CLC website.
No Guidance Description Pg
The Building Safety Regime Summary process map of the building
for a New Higher-Risk safety regime process for a Building
01 -
Building Control Approval Application for a new
Higher-Risk Building.
Approach to the sufficient level of design
02 Sufficient Level of Design detail for a Gateway 2 Building Control 1
Approval application.
Approach and management of the use of
Building Control Approval Approval with Requirements for a
03 5
with Requirements Gateway 2 Building Control Approval
application.
Application Information Baseline design information to be
Schedule submitted for a Gateway 2 Building
04 11
Control Approval application. Includes an
Annex 4A
example schedule.
The use and submission of an Application
Application Project Brief
Project Brief for a Gateway 2 Building
05 15
Annex 5A Control Approval application. Includes an
example project brief.
Best practice for document management
Application Document
Management and Submission and submission to the Building Safety
06 Regulator online portal for a Gateway 2 19
Annex 6A Building Control Approval application.
Includes an example schedule.
Application Strategy - for a The use and submission of an Application
Single Building Staged Strategy for a staged building control
Application or Applications for approval application or applications for
07 a Multi-Building Development 25
multiple buildings within a single
development. Includes an example
Annex 7A
application strategy.
Build UK guidance is also available in relation to the Validation of Applications for
Building Control Approval.