Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
BUILDING CONTROL APPROVAL WITH REQUIREMENTS
3. BUILDING CONTROL APPLICATION SEEKING APPROVAL WITH
REQUIREMENTS
3.1. The new building safety regime for HRBs has brought a fundamental shift in the
principles of the Building Control Approval process. There should be sufficient
design information in the Building Control Approval Application to evidence
compliance with the Building Regulations. This means design needs to be
programmed for delivery much earlier than has happened in the past.
3.2. Approval with Requirements does provide some flexibility but should be
used only when appropriate. If Approval with Requirements is granted, the
corresponding design detail should be submitted for approval as early as possible
in the construction phase.
3.3. An applicant is required to submit:
a) The Building Plans (and other documents) which must demonstrate that
the performance levels required by both the prescriptive (e.g. Building
Regulation 7(2)) and functional / relevant requirements (e.g. the Building
Regulations Schedule 1) can and will be met. It is not enough to simply
state “We will meet the Regulations”.
b) All mandatory documents set out in the legislation. CLC guidance on the
Building Safety Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building provides
further information.
c) An Approval with Requirements Plan which is set out in the Building
Regulations Compliance Statement and appropriately referenced in the
Construction Control Plan. As a minimum it should detail:
• Which parts of the design is Approval with Requirements being
sought;
• The reasons why these items are required to be subject to Approval
with Requirements;
• Further design detail information to be issued to demonstrate
compliance; and
• A timetable for when the further specifications/information will be
submitted.
3.4. The use and submission of an Application Information Schedule is
recommended. The Schedule provides an easy to navigate information
framework aligned with the requirements of Building Regulations (Schedule 1).
Back to contents page Page 8