Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
BUILDING CONTROL APPROVAL WITH REQUIREMENTS
2. THE PRINCIPLES OF APPROVAL WITH REQUIREMENTS
2.1. A Building Control Approval application (Gateway 2) can seek either:
• Approval - Provision of sufficient design of the building to evidence
compliance with all applicable functional requirements of the Building
Regulations; or where appropriate
• Approval with Requirements - Provision of sufficient design to
evidence compliance that the building can and will meet with all
applicable functional requirements of the Building Regulations even
though certain aspects of the design detail remain outstanding at that
time and will be submitted later in accordance with an agreed plan.
2.2. Approval with Requirements can be used for two purposes:
• To enable approval of an application with a minor error or minor
omission in design – Where the application contains a minor error or
omission and the BSR is satisfied that it can be dealt with by a simple
agreement with the applicant.
• As a response to an applicant’s proposal – The applicant provides
a clear and comprehensive application that demonstrates that the
building will comply with the Building Regulations and includes a plan
for submission of further Approval with Requirements design, including
a timeline for delivery. This Approval with Requirements plan will be
set out in the Building Regulations Compliance Statement and
appropriately referenced in the Construction Control Plan. The BSR may
grant Approval with Requirements if they are satisfied with the plan.
2.3. The baseline to any progressive application process (Approval with
Requirements) is that the initial application needs to show suitable and sufficient
information to allow the BSR to be satisfied that the finished building can and
will comply with the Building Regulations even though certain design aspects
remain outstanding at that time.
2.4. When seeking Approval with Requirements it is the applicant’s responsibility to
prepare and submit with the main application a clear and comprehensive
Approval with Requirements Plan to the BSR for agreement.
2.5. Approval with Requirements cannot be used to obtain approval to proceed with
inadequate design. Such applications will be rejected.
2.6. It is not for the BSR to provide design solutions or set out or manage the
applicant’s progressive application process.
Back to contents page Page 7