Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
APPLICATION STRATEGY - FOR A SINGLE BUILDING STAGED
APPLICATION OR APPLICATIONS FOR A MULTI-BUILDING
DEVELOPMENT
2.3. The Application Strategy informs engagement by the BSR, providing awareness
of forthcoming applications, the complexity of a project and proposed approach
to be taken by the applicant.
2.4. Annex 7A provides an example Application Strategy.
2.5. For multi-building developments an applicant should use a consistent name for
the project with an identifier for each application (i.e. Greenwood Park, Building
3 of 6) to ensure future sequential referencing of applications by the applicant
and BSR.
2.6. Early engagement is recommended however there is no prescribed timeframe for
contacting the BSR or the submission of an Application Strategy. Some applicants
may benefit from contacting the BSR prior to Planning Gateway 1, others may
choose to engage 6-12 months prior to a Building Control Approval application
(Gateway 2).
2.7. To discuss a staged application or multiple applications, an applicant should
contact the BSR via the online contact form. The BSR will ask for details of the
application proposal as part of arranging a pre-application meeting. The use and
submission of an Application Strategy is recommended to provide the appropriate
details.
2.8. For continuity the Application Strategy can also be submitted in the BSR online
application portal in a sub-folder named “General Application Information”
and uploaded at the Drawings and Plans stage of the BSR online application
portal. CLC guidance on Application Document Management and
Submission provides further information.
2.9. When an applicant starts a Building Control Approval application using the online
service, they will be prompted to confirm it is a staged application. If ‘yes’ is
selected then further information will be required. Details of the procedures to be
followed and the information required for a staged application can be found on
GOV.UK.
End of Note 07
Back to contents page Page 27