Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
APPLICATION INFORMATION SCHEDULE
2. GATEWAY TWO APPLICATION INFORMATION SCHEDULE
2.1. An Application Information Schedule is recommended to be submitted with
the application.
2.2. The objectives of the Application Information Schedule are to:
• Signpost the sub-folders/files to the Approved Documents;
• Identify the entity responsible for the providing the design;
• Provide guidance on the sufficiency of the design for a Building Control
Approval application and the proposed information that may be provided for
Approval with Requirements.
2.3. The BSR online application portal now provides for the information to be provided
with an application to be uploaded in a folder, sub-folder and file structure at the
time of the application.
2.4. It is recommended that the applicant should submit the Application Information
Schedule as a file in a sub-folder named “General Application Information”,
and upload this sub-folder at the Drawings and Plans stage of the BSR online
application portal. CLC guidance on Application Document Management and
Submission provides further information.
2.5. Annex 4A provides an example of an Application Information Schedule.
3. HOW TO USE AN APPLICATION INFORMATION SCHEDULE
3.1. An Application Information Schedule provides an easy to navigate information
framework aligned with the requirements of Building Regulations (Schedule 1).
3.2. The Schedule is divided into three columns: 1) Approved Documents; 2)
Information provided with the application; and 3) Information provided with
Approval with Requirements.
3.3. It is key that each file listed within both columns 2 and 3 are referenced and
allocated to the respective Approved Document.
3.4. Each file should be allocated only once to the primary Approved Document and
not to multiple Approved Documents.
3.5. Files can be identified with the File Reference Number and File Title. For example
- 2.1.1 (file reference number) Architectural Plans, Sections and Elevations (file
title).
3.6. It is an applicant’s decision on how to name and structure file references and
titles.
End of Note 04
Back to contents page Page 13