Building Control Approval Application for a New
Higher-Risk Building (Gateway 2)
APPLICATION STRATEGY - FOR A SINGLE BUILDING STAGED
APPLICATION OR APPLICATIONS FOR A MULTI-BUILDING
DEVELOPMENT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Under the new Building Safety Regime for a new Higher-Risk Building (HRB), an
applicant must pass through three gateway points: Planning (Gateway 1)
(hospitals and care homes are excluded from the definition of a relevant building);
Building Control Approval (Gateway 2); and Building Control completion (Gateway
3). This process is summarised in the Building Safety Regime for a new
Higher-Risk Building.
1.2. The applicant, either the client or someone authorised to act on their behalf,
should submit and manage a new HRB - Building Control Approval application
(Gateway 2) online to the Building Safety Regulator (BSR).
1.3. For complex projects that involve a building with multiple connected parts, an
applicant may apply for a staged application. A staged application is when the
building work is divided into different stages, allowing for a phased approval
process by the BSR. Each stage:
• is treated and assessed as if it were an application for a separate building;
• must not start until the BSR approves the work; and
• can start or finish on the same date, or different dates, as other stages.
1.4. This approach will also be useful for a complex project involving multiple
buildings.
1.5. An applicant is recommended to contact the BSR before submitting a staged
application or multiple building applications. An Application Strategy can be
submitted as part of this engagement and this guidance outlines a suitable
approach.
1.6. The Application Strategy relates to the overarching application approach and is
not to be used to explain the design principles or design approach to the
application.
2. APPLICATION STRATEGY
2.1. The Application Strategy is a summary document outlining the overarching
Building Control Approval application approach for a proposed complex project,
including a timeline. Where a project is proposing a partial completion strategy
this should also be included within the document.
2.2. This proactive engagement approach by the applicant provides oversight and
comprehension of the proposed complex project, along with a considered
overarching staged application approach in line with the Building Control Approval
process.
Back to contents page Page 26