CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
Summary – The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
Change control plan Building regulations compliance Fire and emergency file
• The golden thread information will need statement • The fire and emergency file needs to be
to reflect the building that is being built, • The building regulations compliance submitted as part of the building control
and any changes made throughout statement needs to be submitted as approval application.
construction. part of the building control approval • Building safety risks (spread of fire
• The change control plan needs to be application. and structural failure) need to be
submitted as part of the building control • The purpose of the building regulations appropriately considered before
approval application. compliance statement is to demonstrate construction starts. Fire and structural
• The purpose of a change control plan is to how the planned building work will comply safety are specifically defined as building
show: with the relevant functional requirements safety risks for the purposes of the new
of the building regulations. regime for HRBs in occupation.
• a clear change control process during
construction to ensure there is an • A building regulations compliance • The fire and emergency file ensures
accurate record of changes; statement must set out the approach that the strategies for managing
taken in designing the proposed work and building safety risks, once the building is
• that the impact of changes are
the building standards applied. completed, have been considered from
carefully considered and discussed
the early design stages.
with other parties as required; and • The principal contractor has the duty to
ensure all building work is in compliance • The fire safety strategy and structural
• that BSR has oversight as necessary.
with the relevant requirements and design should be clear and explained as
• Any change to the documents that
will need to coordinate records with all independent parts of the overall design.
were approved at the building control
contractors for the project. • Everyone involved in delivery of these
approval application stage is defined as a
particular strands of the design must
controlled change.
understand how the requirements of the
• A change control plan must set out
building regulations are to be met.
the strategies, policies and procedures
the client has adopted to ensure any
controlled change is recorded and notified
as required by regulations.
37