CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
4.0 The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
Adopting a whole building approach 4.36. Accountable persons need to be building. This means that any principal
able to demonstrate to the BSR and accountable person should already
4.33. The new building safety regime
others that they are assessing and have or be preparing a safety case
requires HRBs to be considered as
effectively managing building safety report for their higher-risk building
a single system. Compliance with
risks in a systematic fashion and on whether they have been directed to
building safety obligations requires
an ongoing basis. The primary means submit it to the BSR or not.
accountable persons to take a whole
building approach which recognises for this will be through the building’s 4.39. The BSR will assess safety case
the building as a system, rather than safety case report, which should make reports, usually when determining
a series of independent systems, a demonstration that all reasonable a building assessment certificate
elements or processes. steps have been taken to manage application (although they may direct
building safety risks. the submission of safety case reports
4.34. To consider how a building functions
at any other time). They will determine
as a whole it is necessary to know Safety case reports
whether building safety obligations
how the parts of the buildings and
4.37. The golden thread information and
are being delivered on an ongoing
components within it work together. A
documents will inform preparation of
basis. Whilst they will not routinely
fire door, for example, is a part of the
the safety case report. Section 85 of
ask to review the golden thread, if it is
compartmentation of the building, as
the BSA74 requires that the principal
not accurate and up to date then the
well as being one of many fire doors.
accountable person for an occupied
safety case report is also likely to be
As a part of the compartmentation it
HRB “must as soon as reasonably
inaccurate and this will prompt further
contributes both to containing a fire
practicable after the relevant time
investigation by the BSR.
within the compartment of origin,
prepare a report (a “safety case
but also contributes to protecting the 4.40. Meeting the golden thread
report”) containing—
neighbouring compartment, which requirements will require some
• any assessment of the building
may be a means of escape, or a place accountable persons to change
safety risks made under section 83
of refuge for disabled people. their approach to management
by an accountable person for the
of information about buildings.
4.35. Understanding the relationship
building; and
Information should be recognised
between different elements of the
• a brief description of any steps as being a valuable asset in itself.
building will help support safety
taken under section 84 by an Ultimately, the golden thread of
management through recognising
accountable person for the building. information will enable accountable
potential knock-on effects of changes
to one element on other aspects of 4.38. The ‘relevant time’ is either when persons to demonstrate to the BSR
the building and its safe operation. the building is occupied or, if later, that the building is being managed
This in turn has implications for when the principal accountable safely and enable the BSR to verify
the management of golden thread person becomes responsible for the this. It will also enable residents
information.
48