CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
2.0 The Legal Basis
2.17. Guidance can also support compliance
with statutory duties. It will typically The Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government (MHCLG) is responsible
outline good or best practice – for golden thread policy as set out within the primary and secondary legislation.
providing simple, clear and practical
information.
Primary The Building Safety Act 2022 underpins the new building safety requirements
2.18. The legislative requirements are
Legislation for the built environment and the new regime for higher-risk buildings (HRBs). It
summarised in Annex B under the four contains legal requirements intended to secure the safety of people in or about
scenarios below. buildings and to improve the standard of buildings.
• I am a dutyholder – What golden It introduces a new requirement to create, obtain, update, maintain and share
thread requirements do I need to information and documents about a higher-risk building in an electronic format:
this is known as the golden thread of information.
be aware of if I am building a new
HRB from 1st October 2023?
• I am an accountable person –
Secondary Secondary legislation known as Statutory Instruments support the Building Safety
What golden thread requirements
Legislation Act 2022.
do I need to be aware of if I am
There are 3 main Statutory Instruments which are relevant for the golden
responsible for an occupied HRB?
thread of information and provide further duties and detail. This includes
• I am a dutyholder – What golden the requirements for the information which has to be kept as golden thread
thread requirements do I need to information and how the golden thread should be kept. A further four sets of
Regulations set out additional aspects of the golden thread of information.
be aware of if there is building work
in an existing HRB? These SIs sit within a wider suite of legislation for the higher-risk building regime.
• I am an accountable person – What
golden thread requirements do
Guidance on implementing the golden thread will support those responsible to
I need to be aware of if there is Guidance
comply with their statutory duties.
building work in an existing HRB?
Guidance will typically outline a good or best practice approach - which usually
2.19. For the full details of any aspect of
means a standard of risk control meeting or above the legal minimum.
the BSA or Regulations, dutyholders
Existing guidance is available on GOV.UK and the Building Safety Regulator
and accountable persons are advised
website.
to also review the legislation itself,
which is all freely accessible on the
legislation.gov website24.
Figure 4: Building safety – legislative framework and guidance for golden thread
15