CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
Foreword
The new regulatory system requires those of things to do for no real purpose, nor
responsible for these buildings to use the is it intended to be a repository for every
“golden thread” to inform the safe operation detail of a building. It is intended to provide
and occupation of the building and to enable a means to demonstrate to the hundreds
them to identify, mitigate and manage of thousands of people who live in higher-
risks to the safety of those who live in the risk buildings that their home is safe and is
building. The primary mechanism for doing being kept safe by those responsible for their
this is the safety case report for the building, safety.
but that report can only be developed if the
The guidance has been developed by
golden thread information is intact, accurate,
an industry working group with broad
up to date and readily available as a working
experience of the development and
system to those who operate the building.
delivery of information and the delivery and
There has been much debate about the management of higher-risk buildings. As the
content and level of detail required in new regime develops and the first safety
the golden thread as the legislation has case reports are assessed, the guidance will
In my review of building regulations
been developed, but at its core it is the almost certainly need to develop with it. The
and fire safety in 2018, I noted the
information that those responsible need to authors of this guidance have been open that
need to view buildings as a whole
assure themselves and reassure residents this is work in progress, and mechanisms
system and to rebuild trust in the
and the regulator that they understand and to provide constructive feedback are
safety of our higher-risk building
are effectively managing the building so that provided. As we seek to rebuild trust in the
stock. In particular, my 2018 review it is safe for those who live in it and visit it. safety of our higher-risk building stock, I
identified significant issues in the lack would encourage you to use the guidance
This guidance sets out in much more
of key information about buildings intelligently and to provide feedback so that
detail what the golden thread is and how it
during design and construction, and those buildings become progressively safer
may be developed during design, through
the ongoing maintenance of accurate, construction, handover and completion of for all who live in, work in and visit them.
reliable and up to date information the building and into occupation. It seeks
during operation. This led me to to set out the clear purpose of the golden
advocate the creation of an electronic thread, which is first and foremost intended
record for higher-risk buildings, which I to rebuild and then retain trust in the safety
of our higher-risk building stock. I would
called the “Golden Thread”.
encourage everyone involved to remember
that purpose. It is not intended to be a list Dame Judith Hackitt DBE FREng
3