CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
Summary – The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
Design Competence declaration Construction control plan
• Building plans and specifications are • Dutyholders must be competent in the • A construction control plan is a detailed
required to be submitted as part of the area they are responsible for. The building document outlining the procedures,
building control approval application regulations set out requirements for processes, and measures to be
(gateway two) to show understanding and dutyholder duties and competence. implemented during the construction
compliance of the design with the relevant • A client is required to appoint a phase of a building project to ensure
functional requirements in the Building competent principal designer and principal compliance with building regulations. This
Regulations. These should be supported contractor and whoever appoints other includes:
by any other necessary design details, dutyholder designers and contractors • How the building works will meet the
specifications and product classification, must also satisfy themselves as to their building regulations and how evidence
as well as the ‘accompanying’ documents. appointee’s competence. will be captured, including ‘as built’
• Building plans and specifications should • A competence declaration needs to be evidence to support the completion
consider key elements and how each submitted as part of the building control certificate application;
integrate to deliver a compliant system. approval application (gateway two) to • How those involved in the project with
• Plan and manage your application and demonstrate these duties have been co-operate and share information;
submit a comprehensive design with all discharged and compliance with the • Evidence for competence, information
the appropriate supporting plans and relevant Regulations. and training for those carrying out the
specifications required to demonstrate • The declaration should be signed by the works;
that the building design will be client and include: • Names of the principal contractor,
capable (without significant change) of
• confirmation that the principal principal designer and any others who
achieving compliance with the functional
designer, principal contractor, and any will carry out the work and summaries
performance requirements of the Building
other designers and contractors are of responsibilities; and
Regulations.
competent to carry out their roles; • How and when the control plan will be
• Even if some information is not available
• the steps taken to make sure all of the reviewed.
at the point of the application, it will
above are competent to carry out their • The construction control plan needs to be
still be required before building control
roles; and submitted as part of the building control
approval can be given for the relevant
• any reasons the principal designer or approval application.
works. No building work can commence
without approval. principal contractor competence is • It should be a practical and useful
called into question, why they have document describing working
still been appointed and mitigation arrangements for a principal contractor
steps to reduce risks. and all other contractors to follow. It will
also support the change log.
36