CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
3.16. The accompanying documents are Construction phase – The evidence to 3.20. Sufficient evidence must be captured
set out in The Building (Higher-Risk demonstrate that the approved design is during construction to show:
being built and any changes are managed
Buildings Procedures) (England) • how the building work conforms
and comply with the building regulations
Regulations42 and include: to the design that was approved,
• competence declaration; 3.18. Once building control approval has including any approved changes;
• construction control plan; been granted and the BSR has been and
• change control plan; notified of the intention to start work, • how the building satisfies all the
the principal contractor is responsible applicable functional requirements
• building regulations compliance
for managing the golden thread of the building regulations.
statement;
relevant to the building work. This
3.21. To make sure there is robust record
• fire and emergency file; includes using the system set up by
keeping during HRB work, the client
• mandatory occurrence reporting the client, capturing and keeping
must have procedures in place to
plan; and all building information up to date.
ensure changes are managed and
They also need to ensure effective
• partial completion strategy (where the principal contractor must ensure
communications and share information
relevant). there is a record of all the controlled
with relevant persons.
3.17. Certain information will also be changes that have been made. All
developed through the planning 3.19. In certain circumstances such as changes from the original building
gateway one process and the design where requirements have been control approval application (agreed
stage that is not submitted as part imposed on a building control documents) must be recorded in the
of the building control approval approval, or where changes are change control log.
made to the design once construction
application. However, the client must 3.22. It is essential that the agreed
work has started, design work will
ensure that relevant information is documents are updated throughout
overlap with the construction work.
kept as golden thread information construction. Up to date versions will
The principal designer will therefore
when the application for building be required to be submitted to the
continue to have a duty to plan,
control approval is submitted BSR as part of a completion certificate
manage and monitor design work
including: application. The golden thread will
throughout the project. They will
• all designs for the building work therefore evolve throughout the
need to collaborate with the principal
produced before the building construction phase.
contractor to ensure any changes to
control approval application is 3.23. The golden thread information will
designs or design work during the
submitted; and enable the design and construction
construction phase continue to be
• the fire statement that was teams to demonstrate “what” has
captured in the golden thread.
developed as part of the planning been built and “how” compliant
gateway one process. 43 delivery was met.
25