CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
4.0 The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
4.29. The key building information submitted Table 2 outlines the prescribed information
at registration will help accountable and documents to be kept by the
accountable person, along with practical
persons to understand their buildings
examples.
and make informed decisions around
the assessment and management
4.31. It is very likely that accountable
of building safety risks. It will also
persons will already have some of the
help the BSR to determine which
golden thread information through:
HRBs to prioritise when directing
• registration of the building and
the submission of applications for
the provision of key building
a building assessment certificate.
information; and
The application process began in
• requirements under existing
April 2024, and it is likely to take
legislation such as The Regulatory
approximately five years to process all
existing HRBs for the first time.69 Reform (Fire Safety) Order.
Table 3 provides further guidance. Some
Golden Thread Information
other information may need further action to
4.30. Schedule 1 of The Higher-Risk obtain, maintain and keep up to date.
Buildings (Keeping and Provision
4.32. The golden thread, assessment of
of Information etc.) (England)
safety risks and their management
Regulations70 sets out in detail
and safety case reports are all new
the golden thread information and
requirements. Whilst well managed
documents that accountable persons
organisations should have a significant
must keep for a particular HRB. The
amount of the information required,
information and documents are set out
it may not be in the prescribed
in detail and are essential to support
form. Since the safety case report
the appointed person in managing
is a new concept for HRBs, the
building safety and to develop and
assessment of risks and preparation
justify the safety case report.
of the report may require additional
resources, whether in house or
Schedule 1 also identifies what
using a consultant. Additional
information an accountable person
resources should be directed to tasks
must provide to the BSR, to other
demonstrably required to comply with
accountable persons, to residents and
the regulations.
to the local fire and rescue authority.71
44