CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
4.0 The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
Table 3: Golden Thread Information
Some golden thread information will already be available from the following:
Registration
The principal accountable person is responsible for registering a HRB and for keeping the ‘registration information’
in the golden thread of information.
The BSR has produced guidance on how to register a higher-risk building and the information that will need to be
provided when registering a building72.
The registration information that needs to be provided to the BSR needs to be kept as golden thread information.
If the information is updated the principal accountable person needs to both update the register to provide the
updated information to the BSR and update the registration information in the golden thread.
Key Building Information
The principal accountable person must also provide the key building information within 28 days of registering their
building with the BSR.
Guidance on what information needs to be provided as key building information is available73. The key building
information must also be kept by the principal accountable person as golden thread information. If the information
is updated both the register and the golden thread must be updated.
Fire Safety Management
The documents are the most recent version of any document which was created to manage the risk of fire spread
in any part of the HRB or to comply with article 9 of The Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order.
Management of Building Safety Risks
Accountable persons must have the following golden thread documents relating to building safety risks in their
HRB:
• the safety case report for the building;
• a record of any maintenance and any repairs relating to a building safety risk that has been undertaken on
behalf of the accountable person; and
• the most recent version of any document relating to managing a building safety risk to the HRB.
For further details see section 84 of the BSA.
47