CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
Summary – The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
• fire and emergency file; • There must be effective communication • construction control plan;
• mandatory occurrence reporting plan; between principal designer and all • change control plan and the change
and contractors and sharing of information control log;
relevant to the building work.
• partial completion strategy (where • mandatory occurrence reporting plan;
relevant). • The information will enable the design • building regulations compliance
and construction teams to demonstrate
• There are also additional documents to be statement;
“what” has been built and “how”
submitted where relevant. The client will • fire and emergency file;
compliant delivery was met.
have to define the content of their golden
• compliance declaration; and
thread information for each individual
Golden thread information –
• confirmation from the relevant
project.
handover and completion phase
person that they have received the
Golden thread information - • At handover and completion the golden golden thread and relevant handover
construction phase thread is the evidence to demonstrate information from the client.
that the completed building complies
• During the construction phase the golden • The approved building completion
with the building regulations and a
thread is the evidence to demonstrate certificate and application must be
comprehensive and accurate record of the
that the approved design is being built handed to the relevant person.
building has been handed over.
and any changes are managed and • The information will enable the client,
comply with the building regulations. • The client must handover the golden design and construction teams to
thread of information to the relevant
• The principal contractor is responsible demonstrate “what” has been built and
person on completion of the building (or
for managing the golden thread relevant “how” compliant delivery was met.
completion of building work).
to the building work. This includes using • The information will enable the
the system set up by the client, capturing • The client must apply for a building relevant person (Responsible Person
and keeping all building information up to completion certificate. The application or accountable persons) to manage the
date. must contain sufficient information to building safely in operation.
show how the building conforms to the
• The principal contractor must ensure
approved design and satisfies all the
there is a record of all the controlled
applicable functional requirements of
changes that have been made. All
the building regulations. Supporting
changes from the original building control
information includes:
approval application (agreed documents)
must be recorded in the change • a notice stating the date on which the
building work was completed;
• ‘as built’ plans and information;
35