CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
Summary – The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
• Some other information may need further • The safety case report will describe:
action to obtain, maintain and keep up to
date. • the building and set out the findings
from building safety risk assessments;
• The assessment of risks and
preparation of the safety case report • the measures that have been taken to
is a new requirement and may require remove, reduce and manage building
proportionate and competent additional safety risks;
resources.
• the management arrangements,
policies and procedures; and
Safety case reports
• details of the emergency arrangements
• The golden thread information and
that are in place.
documents will inform preparation of
the safety case report. The Building
Information for residents and third
Safety Regulator (BSR) will assess safety
parties
case reports, usually when determining
a building assessment certificate • A principal accountable person or an
application. accountable person is required to give
information and documents to people
• The golden thread of information
with an interest in the building such as
will enable accountable persons to
residents, other accountable persons, the
demonstrate to the BSR that the building
BSR and the local fire and rescue service.
is being managed safely and enable the
BSR to verify this. It will also enable • The Higher-Risk Buildings (Keeping and
residents to access accurate and robust Provision of Information etc.) Regulations
information (in an understandable form) sets out the required information and
about their building. documents that should be provided.
• Using information contained within the
Large HRB portfolios
golden thread, the safety case report will
serve to: • Accountable persons with large HRB
portfolios should consider effective
• identify the building safety risks for the
management systems for the golden
building;
thread including:
• clarify the measures taken to remove
• information and documents; and
or manage the risk; and
• risk and safety.
• justify those measures as being
appropriate to maintain the safety of the
building and people in and around it.
55