CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX A - Glosssary
accompanying documents building safety risk golden thread information
the documents which have to be submitted risk to the safety of people in or about a this is the information and documents to be
with a building control application for higher- building arising from: the spread of fire; kept in the golden thread.
risk buildings. structural failure; any other prescribed
higher-risk building (HRB)
matter.
accountable person (AP) higher-risk buildings are defined in design
person or organisation who owns, or has a competence and construction as building which are either
legal obligation to repair, any common parts application of skill, knowledge, experience 18m (or above) or seven stories (or above)
of an occupied higher-risk building. and behaviour consistently to achieve a which will contain at least two residential
specific outcome. units, or are hospitals or care homes
agreed documents that meet the same height threshold. In
accompanying documents related to either completion certificate application occupation higher-risk buildings are occupied
an approved building control application (gateway 3) multi-residential buildings which are 18m (or
or an approved completion certificate application milestone where information and above) or seven stories (or above).
application. When the Building Safety documents are required to gain a completion
Regulator approves a building control certificate prior to occupation. information and documents
application or a completion certificate meaningful data, with or without a medium
application, the accompanying documents compliance to contain it.
fulfilment of specified requirements or
become known as the agreed documents
prescribed responsibilities. key building information
(as they have been ‘agreed’ by the Building
Safety Regulator).
construction process this information is set out within regulations
the inception, brief, design, production, and 3 to 18 of The Higher-Risk Buildings (Key
building
demolition/deconstruction of construction Building Information etc.) (England)
any permanent or temporary building but not
works. Regulations 2023. It is the information which
any other kind of structure or erection.
has to be provided to the Building Safety
NOTE: A reference to a building includes a
dutyholder Regulator by the principal accountable
reference to part of a building.
person or organisation with specific legally person within 28 days of registration.
prescribed responsibilities.
building control application (gateway 2)
occupant
application milestone where information and
golden thread resident, worker, visitor or other person in
documents are required to gain approval
the golden thread is both the information and around a building.
from the BSR to commence work.
that allows someone to understand a
building and the steps needed to keep both occupation
building regulations
the building and people safe, now and in the possession, by an occupant, for the purpose
The Building Regulations 2010 (England and
future. of being lived in.
Wales) with its amendments.
59