CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX D - Large HRB portfolios
Risk and safety management reverse the decision when it comes D1.18. The reason that risk management
systems and the golden thread to replacing the alarm system, and systems are identified as being critical
inadvertently reduce the safety of the to improving safety standards, is
D1.13. One of the most important changes
building. that risk management systems are
introduced through the Building
Safety Act 2022 (BSA)98 is a shift from D1.15. Systemic approaches rely upon typically based upon a continuous
a culture of ‘compliance’ to one of learning lessons from things that go improvement cycle. Since the mid-
‘systemic risk management’. Dame well, and also events that go awry. 1990s, in UK Health and Safety law,
Judith Hackitt’s interim report99 in If these learnings aren’t recorded, the improvement cycle has been
2017 stated “There is a widespread and made intuitively accessible to based upon the Plan, Do, Check, Act
culture in relation to building and future accountable persons, then the (PDCA) cycle100. Existing guidance
fire standards of waiting to be told golden thread principle has not been includes BS 9997101 and BS EN ISO
what to do by regulators rather than delivered upon, as the core principle 45001102, which are also PDCA based
taking responsibility for building to of the golden thread is to enable good management systems, that can be
correct standards. The approach decision making throughout the life used to manage building safety risks.
is very much driven by aiming for cycle of the building. D1.19. This annex outlines how a larger
minimum compliance, not ensuring D1.16. Therefore, when making decisions organisation with responsibility for a
safety for the lifetime of the building.” based on the questions detailed below, number of buildings could develop a
The introduction of the golden thread it is critical to make sure that the logic risk management system to enable
requirements exemplifies the cultural and justification of your decisions them to discharge their duties under
change that the new building safety are recorded in a way that future the Building Safety Act and other
regime seeks to achieve. accountable persons can find and rely relevant legislation such as the Fire
D1.14. Accountable persons must set out why on the information to enable them to Safety Act and the Regulatory Reform
they have made their decisions. For make decisions. Order and their obligations to the
Regulator of Social Housing
example, following a fire in a building D1.17. In the new regulatory regime for
fire alarm engineers recommend occupied HRBs, the expectation is D1.20. A significant element of the golden
a change to the alarm and smoke placed firmly on the accountable thread is based on capturing and
control systems due to lessons learnt person to understand their building, retaining evidence of cyclical events,
after a fire. The accountable person to assess the key building safety such as fire risk assessments and
must record this evidence as golden risks and then to manage them. This follow up works or alarm test records
thread information. If this decision need not be unduly onerous and etc. Systemic management of building
is not captured and made easily there is guidance available to assist safety risks goes beyond these cyclical
accessible to a future accountable accountable persons to assess risks in events and seeks to identify root
person, they may unwittingly their building. causes of risks, rather than treating
the symptoms.
74