CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX D - Large HRB portfolios
Support
The questions an accountable person can ask to implement a proportionate risk
D1.31. Previous sections have described that management system are:
the leadership of the accountable
• What internal expertise and capacity do I possess?
person should identify the levels
• What, if any, external expertise needs to be instructed or procured?
of resource required to implement
a proportionate risk management • What infrastructure do I need to maintain an effective risk management system? (note
system. This section provides that this can include personnel, as well as hardware, such as fire alarms or IT software
systems for storing data)
additional guidance on this matter.
• What do I require to ensure the management system is sustainable? (e.g. what
happens if a key staff member, company director or stakeholder leave or become ill?)
• What happens if a critical piece of safety equipment breaks?
• How will I sustain competence? (e.g. frequency of training for key decision makers).
Operation
The questions an accountable person may ask during the operational phase
D1.32. The planning phase of the risk include:
management system can now be • How will I ensure the people working on my building are competent to carry out those
implemented during the operational works?
phase. This phase will be unique to
• How will I recognise that the plan, developed in the previous sections, is insufficient
each building.
and needs to change, including how does this change get recorded, to provide an audit
trail?
• What servicing and maintenance of the building needs to be conducted?
• When does this need to take place, and by whom?
• How will this activity be recorded?
• Is there sufficient funding to enable this activity, and if not, what am I doing to mitigate
the safety risks whilst funding is secured?
• How will I collect, consider, action (where appropriate) and record concerns raised by
occupants, contractors and other interested parties regarding fire and/or structural
safety of the building?
• How will I respond in a major fire and/or structural safety incident? (e.g. What
processes are in place to identify all occupants? How will communication with residents
occur? Are alternative accommodation arrangements in place? Is there a suitable
mandatory occurrence reporting process in place? etc.)
78