CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
Partial Completion Strategy – managing The partial completion strategy must
the partial occupation of a building explain—
• the proposals adopted in designing
3.60. The delivery and commercial
for occupation of each part of the
arrangements for many buildings
building or the proposed building to
will be based on a phased partial
be completed to ensure compliance
completion model where sections of
with the applicable requirements
the building are completed and can be
of the building regulations (e.g.
occupied whilst work still goes on in
how are the occupied parts
other sections of the building.
provided with compliant fire safety
3.61. Challenges can present to developers
measures, are they independent,
in situations where parts of the
do they rely on partial emergency
building become subject to different
access at non-working times,
requirements under design,
how will things change upon full
construction and occupation. It is
occupation and how will this be
essential that a means of managing
communicated?);
safety and compliance with dutyholder
• the measures, strategies and
requirements in this situation is
policies it is proposed the owner
planned and adhered to.
of the building should adopt to
3.62. The proposed means of managing
manage and maintain each such
these challenges must be set out in a
part of the building or the proposed
partial completion strategy which, in
building; and
addition to being communicated to all
• any assumptions made in those
relevant people to allow understanding
measures, strategies and proposals
and success. Where partial occupation
as to the intended occupiers of
is being planned this statement must
each such part of the building
form part of the building control
or the proposed building and
approval application.
their likely characteristics and
behaviours, and the intended
management or maintenance of
each such part of the building or
the proposed building.
33