CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX B - Legislative Requirements for dutyholders and accountable persons
I am an accountable person - What golden thread requirements do I need to
be aware of if there is building work in an existing HRB?
These regulations set out: the registration information must be kept as golden thread
The Building Safety
(Registration • When the registration information is updated the principal information.
of Higher- accountable person must notify the BSR within 14 days.
Risk Buildings Certain significant building work may require registration
and Review information to be updated.
of Decisions)
The Higher-Risk Buildings (Keeping and Provision of
(England)
Information etc.) (England) Regulations 2024 specify that
Regulations 2023
The Regulations set out:
The Higher-
Risk Buildings • When the key building information is updated the principal The key building information must be kept as golden thread
(Key Building accountable person must notify the BSR within 28 days. information. This is specified in The Higher-Risk Buildings
Information Building work to an existing building may mean that (Keeping and Provision of Information etc.) (England)
etc.) (England) the key building information needs to be updated and Regulations 2024.
Regulations 2023 - submitted to the BSR.
SI 2023/39694
These regulations place requirements on accountable • specify details requirements around the provision of
The Higher-
persons, residents and others with regard to building safety golden thread information to the BSR, residents and
Risk Buildings
and the management of building safety duties for occupied others including any client for building work (regulations
(Management
HRBs. These duties continue even when there is building work 8, 9 and 11). This includes setting out when the
of Safety Risks
in the building. information must be given and the form it must be given
etc) (England)
Regulations 2023 - For the golden thread of information the Regulations: it.
SI 2023/90795 • set out how the accountable persons must keep the • set out the prescribed principles for the ongoing
golden thread of information during occupation of a management of building safety risks and the content of
higher-risk building. The regulations sets out that the safety case reports (which will be kept as golden thread
golden thread must be accessible, accurate, accountable, information) (regulations 4 and 5). The management of
electronic secure, transferable and understandable building safety risks could change when there is building
(regulation 7). The Regulations do not specify that the work ongoing in the building.
golden thread has to be up to date as this is already
specified in the BSA.
67