CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
Scope
The golden thread is a legal requirement This guidance will be relevant for: Outline of the guidance
for a higher-risk building (HRB) under the This guidance is divided into 3 main sections:
• clients;
Building Safety Act 20225 and supporting
• principal designers (PD);
secondary legislation. Guidance on the Section 2 – this section will be of
legal criteria for determining whether a • principal contractors (PC); relevance to all readers and summarises:
building is considered a HRB is provided • designers; • the fundamentals of the golden thread;
on GOV.UK6.
• contractors; • the new regulatory regime and
The HRB regulatory regime is only • principal accountable persons (PAPs); and requirements;
applicable in England. • accountable persons (APs). • storing and managing information; and
This guidance covers the content of • related guidance that is available.
It will also be useful for those people
the golden thread throughout the
responsible for HRBs which were under Section 3 – outlines the golden thread
lifecycle of a HRB – i.e. what golden
construction before 1st October 2023 or information required to be kept during
thread information dutyholders and
covered by the transitional arrangements design and construction and sets out:
accountable persons need to create,
obtain, update, maintain and share. in building control7. This is because as the • the golden thread requirements on
person responsible for the building when it is dutyholders responsible for designing and
It is intended to cover:
occupied will have to comply with the golden constructing HRBs;
• design; thread requirements. Therefore, it would be • the development of the golden thread
helpful for the person responsible for the
• construction; through planning gateway one to building
design and construction of the building to
control approval application at gateway
• handover and completion; and
be aware of the golden thread requirements
two;
• occupation.
as the person responsible for the occupied
• the development of the golden thread
It is applicable for: building will need to request information
through the construction process; and
about the design and construction phases to
• any HRB once it is occupied;
• the information required to support the
develop their golden thread.
• any building work to create a new HRB application for the completion certificate
(either by building new or changing at gateway three.
the use of an existing building); and
Section 3 will be of particular relevance
• any building work to an existing HRB. to clients, principal designers, principal
contractors, designers and contractors
involved in creating a new HRB. This section
will also be relevant for projects where
building work is to be undertaken to an
existing occupied HRB.
7