CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX B - Legislative Requirements for dutyholders and accountable persons
I am an accountable person - What golden thread requirements do I need
to be aware of if I am responsible for an occupied HRB?
For the golden thread of information: • The Act also gives the Secretary of State the power to
The Building
Safety Act 202286 • The Act specifies that accountable persons must keep make regulations to make further requirements around
certain information as golden thread information and must what information is kept as golden thread information, the
keep this information to the required standards. sharing of this information and how it is kept. This applies
to any HRB that is occupied. This is set out in section 88,
• The Act specifies that that this information must be
89 and 90 of the Act.
shared with certain persons.
NB The Act and The Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions and
Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 202387 define a HRB.
These Regulations place requirements on accountable • specify details requirements around the provision of
The Higher-
persons, residents and others with regard to building safety golden thread information to the BSR, residents and
Risk Buildings
and the management of building safety duties for occupied others (regulations 8, 9 and 11). This includes setting out
(Management
of Safety Risks HRBs. when the information must be given and the form it must
etc) (England) For the golden thread of information the Regulations: be given it.
Regulations 2023 - • set out how the accountable persons must keep the • set out the prescribed principles for the ongoing
SI 2023/907 golden thread of information during occupation of a management of building safety risks and the content of
higher-risk building. The Regulations set out that the safety case reports (which will be kept as golden thread
golden thread must be accessible, accurate, accountable, information) (regulations 4 and 5).
electronic, secure, transferable and understandable
(regulation 7). The Regulations do not specify that the
golden thread has to be up to date as this is already
specified in the BSA.
These Regulations specify the golden thread information that • what information needs to be handed over when an
The Higher-Risk
accountable persons for a HRB must keep and the information accountable person leaves their role (regulation 13).
Buildings (Keeping
and Provision that they have to share with other persons (including • the information that should be shared with other persons
of Information residents). and when this information should be shared (regulations 5
etc.) (England) The regulations specify: to 12 and 14). These persons are specified in the Act and
Regulations 2024 - • the golden thread information that accountable persons these Regulations as the BSR, residents, owners of flats,
SI 2024/4188 should keep during occupation (regulation 4 and Schedule clients, Responsible Persons, fire and rescue service and
1). landlords of residents.
• certain exceptions to the sharing of information
(regulations 15 to 19).
64