CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
The Construction Leadership Council
The Construction Leadership Council1 (CLC)
brings together all parts of the construction
industry and government. Its mission is
CLC Advisors CLC Board CLC Council
to provide leadership and coordination to
enable the construction sector to improve
its performance, benefiting both the private
and public sectors. By convening an industry
partnership, the CLC provides the means
to address short-term and long-term issues Four
Next
Building People & Net Zero &
that affect our sector. Strategic Generation
Safety Skills Biodiversity
Priorities Delivery
The CLC’s four strategic priorities are:
Building Safety; Net Zero and Biodiversity;
People and Skills; and Next Generation
Delivery.
Increasing Professional
Golden Construction
Building Safety Strategic Priority Competence Regulatory Indemnity
Thread Products
The CLC aims to champion and support Clarity Insurance
delivery of safe and high-quality buildings for
those who live and work in them.
The Building Safety Act 20222, together
Figure 1: The structure of the Construction Leadership Council
with supporting secondary legislation, has
as normal business practice and no longer
introduced a new regulatory regime which
required as a strategic priority.
has placed new requirements and obligations
on everyone, not just those who work on The Council works with government,
higher-risk buildings. This means all those regulatory bodies, professional bodies and
within the construction sector must play their firms across the construction sector on
part in procuring, designing, constructing, strategic building safety issues, to support
managing and refurbishing buildings safely. the whole built environment to build its
capability to meet the requirements of the
Industry leadership and adoption is vital, to
new legislation. Industry guidance forms part
achieve not only regulatory compliance, but
of this work.
a cultural shift within the industry in relation
to building safety. The Council’s vision is
that building safety should be embedded
4