CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
Building Regulations Compliance • Designs may follow an innovative Fire and Emergency File – a particular
Statement – communicating the compliance approach, supported by competent focus on fire and structural safety
route method
appraisal and appropriate design
3.53. The purpose of the fire and emergency
review.
3.48. The purpose of the building regulations file is to ensure that the strategies
compliance statement is to explain any 3.50. To demonstrate the compliance of for managing building safety risks,
guidance or standard that the designer the design, it is essential that clarity once the building is completed, have
is using to support the compliance of of the approach taken is identified at been considered from the early design
the design. It helps provide assurance gateway two. This means that anyone stages. This includes clarity about
of how the planned building work will seeking assurance of the design the assumptions that underpin those
comply with the relevant requirements approach is directed to the relevant strategies.
of the building regulations. Compliance information and documents that will
3.54. Safe design must address all aspects of
and the route to that compliance enable an assessment of compliance
the building regulations. This includes
must be achieved for each applicable to be made.
building safety risks (spread of fire and
building regulation requirement. 3.51. The statement acts as a summary and
structural failure) which need to be
3.49. The building regulations are not should signpost relevant documents appropriately considered.
prescriptive, rather they set out (guidance, standards, design codes or
3.55. Everyone involved in delivery of these
functional requirements. This specifics of individual solutions) in the
particular strands of the design must
allows designers to follow any application for each of the functional
understand how the requirements
relevant guidance and allows for requirements. The statement
of the building regulations are to be
different approaches to be taken. must set out the approach taken in
met and any assumptions relating to
The benchmark to be achieved for designing the proposed work and the
ongoing management of the building
those functional requirements is the building standards applied and the
that underpin those elements of the
standard set for common building reasons for adopting the approach
design. This includes how:
situations in the statutory guidance: taken, together with an explanation
• the structural design brings forward
of why the approach is appropriate
• Designs may follow the approach
particular areas of delivery for
and ensures compliance with all
set out in the relevant Approved
relevant contractors and how they
applicable requirements of the building
Document to the building
may impose limitations on other
regulations.
regulations. structurally related packages of
3.52. For the compliance statement it will
• Designs may follow the advice design;
not be enough to simply state that
given in another recognised • all occupants will be alerted to the
the building control application is
standard such as a British occurrence of a fire;
compliant. It is necessary to set out
Standard.
how each of the relevant functional • all occupants will be able to safely
requirements are to be met. escape from the building;
31