CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
The golden thread of information for 3.10. During the design and construction 3.13. Before building work starts the golden
the HRB building control regime phases, the emphasis is on designing thread information must contain
and building in compliance with the sufficient detail to demonstrate how:
3.8. The golden thread information is all
functional requirements of the building • the building, when built, will
the information required to support
regulations. The documents required satisfy all of the applicable
the whole HRB building control
as part of an application for building functional requirements of building
process, it will evolve and should
control approval (gateway two) and a regulations; and
be managed and stored effectively
completion certificate (gateway three)
(see section 2 of this guidance). This • the construction activity (building
will be used to support this.
includes all the information: work) will be managed to ensure
the building will be built to the
• required for the building control Golden thread information
design. This includes demonstrating
approval application, including
Design phase – The information to
that sufficient credible evidence to
a full record of the design for demonstrate the design if built will comply
support your building completion
the planned building and the with the building regulations
certificate application will be
‘accompanying documents’;
3.11. The client is responsible for captured.
• records associated with any
determining that appropriate 3.14. The golden thread information enables
changes through the construction
procedures for developing, managing the design and construction teams to
phase; and
and storing the golden thread demonstrate “what” is to be built and
• the evidence collected to support information are in place. They must “how” compliant delivery is to be met.
the completion certificate allow the right people (principal
3.15. The new HRB regime requires some
application and handover to the designer, principal contractor and
new information and documents to be
Responsible Person. other dutyholders) to have access to
submitted with the building control
3.9. More detail on the HRB building the golden thread.
application as well as the design
control regime can be found in 3.12. The principal designer is responsible (drawings and plans). These are called
The Building (Higher-Risk Buildings for ensuring that the designs are accompanying documents and all
Procedures) (England) Regulations39, stored appropriately and for managing should be submitted as part of the
HSE guidance40 and GOV.UK41. the golden thread information relating building control approval application
to design work of the project. This (gateway two) to the BSR. These
includes capturing and keeping all of documents need to be kept as golden
the design information up to date, thread information. The building
effective communication between control application should include a
designers and sharing of information description of the HRB work.
relevant to the building work with the
principal contractor and contractors.
24