CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX D - Large HRB portfolios
Information and documents D1.4. Effective management of information D1.7. Accountable persons should
management can be achieved even when the understand which aspects of their
information is held across more than golden thread information are likely
D1.1. There are two different elements of
one source, file management system, to remain static, for example fire
the golden thread of information,
or software programme. This means resistance standards of compartment
information and documents. This
that existing systems may be able to walls, and information which is
guidance provides examples of how
be used to meet the golden thread dynamic, for example results of
to manage both information and
requirements. ongoing testing and maintenance of a
documents effectively. The examples
D1.5. For larger organisations that manage fire suppression system or fire doors
given are by no means exhaustive.
a portfolio which includes a number to ensure they remain fit for purpose.
D1.2. Accountable persons building safety of HRBs, it may be beneficial Other routine maintenance activities,
obligations are continuous, therefore to consider how information is such as the maintenance and servicing
at any given time the golden thread organised, structured and managed of lifts to comply with existing
information must, as far as is to support delivery of effective asset machinery related regulations also
possible, be an accurate reflection management across all relevant have an impact on the golden thread.
of the current building and how it is
buildings. This may enable trends D1.8. To ensure that information and
managed.
to be spotted, for example potential documents remain accurate and up
D1.3. For the golden thread information risk factors, ease of identifying all to date, and supports those who use
to remain true to the golden thread buildings where the risk factor is them, it is advisable to formally set
principles throughout the lifecycle relevant and appropriate responsive out who is responsible for updating,
of a building, it must be managed actions carried out. maintaining, and periodically reviewing
effectively and made available to D1.6. Larger organisations may also have a them. Different teams or people may
those who need it when they need number of teams that deliver a range be responsible for different elements
it. There should also be a clear, of services, management or support of the information and documents.
consistent and robust mechanism for
to a building and the residents within. D1.9. Certain actions will require new
recording changes and updates made
Teams with different functions should or replacement information to be
to the golden thread. The reasons for
have a clear understanding of their accurately recorded. For example, the
changes and updates may need to be
roles and responsibilities, how they fire rating of a door will change when
recorded, along with details of who
relate to and impact the roles and one type of fire door with a 30-minute
has made the changes.
responsibilities of others and the fire rating is replaced by one with a
potential impact of their work on the 60-minute fire rating. In terms of the
building and meeting wider building action, it will be necessary to ensure
safety duties. this is recorded, along with details of
72