CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
4.0 The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
to access accurate and robust 4.44. The safety case report will clearly 4.47. It is important to stress that the
information about their building so detail the measures that have been golden thread is not just a set of
they can feel safe in their homes. taken to remove, reduce and manage information and documents but needs
4.41. It is important that information building safety risks. It will set out the to be underpinned by policies and
intended for residents is provided in management arrangements, policies processes to ensure the information
an understandable form. This may and procedures to ensure those risks is accurate, up to date, and accessible
mean that professional reports, for are managed on an ongoing basis in to the right people whilst also being
example structural surveys or fire risk a sufficient and proportionate manner secure. This supports the overall
assessments, will require summaries to maintain the safety of the building management approach to building
to be prepared in language that is and those living in it and those in and safety. It cannot be delivered as a
accessible to and understandable around it. It will provide details of the product, a “software solution” or
by residents and others who do not emergency arrangements that are in a consultancy service. Competent
have expertise in that professional place. individuals will need to be engaged to
background. 4.45. In summary, using information contribute to the development of the
4.42. Details of the information that must contained within the golden thread, golden thread and the processes and
be included within a safety case report the safety case report will serve to procedures that underpin it.
are set out in Regulation 5 of The identify the building safety risks for 4.48. During a building’s life cycle various
Higher-Risk Buildings (Management the building, clarify the measures people are involved in developing and
of Safety Risks etc) (England) taken to remove or manage the risk assuring building information and
Regulations75 and summarised in and justify those measures as being even more use the information to
Annex C. Table 4 shows how the appropriate to maintain the safety of make decisions on the management
golden thread information listed the building and people in and around of a building. They all need to work
in Schedule 1 of The Higher-Risk it. The accuracy and effectiveness of together and be managed to maintain
Buildings (Keeping and Provision the safety case report depends on accurate data based on correct
of Information etc.) (England) golden thread information. assumptions with the information
Regulations76 will inform the safety 4.46. The golden thread will also stored electronically.
case report content. provide information to support the
4.43. The safety case report will describe responsibilities of the Responsible
the building and set out the findings Person in relation to the Fire Safety
from building safety risk assessments, Act77 and The Fire Safety (England)
including the potential scenarios that
Regulations78.
have been identified and the likelihood
of them occurring.
49