CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
4.0 The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
4.16. Accountable persons must be able accountable person will not be able to progresses. These requirements will
readily to access the golden thread produce a sufficiently robust safety have to be reflected in contracts
information and documents to give case report. let by accountable persons and will
the right people the right information 4.18. When an accountable person leaves also have an impact on the selection
at the right time to keep a building their role they must transfer golden and management of contracts.
safe. They will also need to give thread information to the new Accountable persons will need to
appropriate people direct access accountable person. The outgoing ensure that they comply with all the
to the golden thread information accountable person must transfer new requirements and that appointed
to enable them to refer to it and all the golden thread information contractors understand and comply.
update it where appropriate. This will that they were keeping immediately These requirements may also have
improve knowledge, understanding before they leave their role to the new cost implications for accountable
and management of building safety accountable person. The outgoing persons.
risks, which are defined in the BSA accountable person does not have 4.20. An accountable person is not expected
as the spread of fire and structural to transfer commercially sensitive to be competent and have expertise
failure. The golden thread should be information unless it is information on every aspect of building safety.
an up to date picture of the current that is significant for managing the An accountable person does need to
state of the HRB. The information building safely. know the limits of their competence or
and documents must be stored and 4.19. Whenever regulated building organisational capabilities and when
shared in an electronic format and be work is carried out in a HRB the they may need to employ or appoint
readily available to support the day to dutyholders and the accountable someone with specific skills and
day management and operation of the persons must also be aware of the expertise for a specific role or task.
building.
new competence requirements in the 4.21. Accountable persons will have
4.17. Where there are multiple accountable building regulations and The Building different levels of competence,
persons for a building, they must (Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures) capability and expertise within their
coordinate and cooperate to ensure (England) Regulations64. PAS organisation. Larger organisations
golden thread information is shared. 8673:202265 provides a benchmark may have competence and capability
This is vital as it will enable each for assessing competence in building spread across a number of teams,
accountable person to understand safety management. These require allowing them to meet building safety
the wider building, allowing them competent people to be appointed to duties in-house. Smaller organisations
to effectively assess and manage do the work. They must also supply or individual accountable persons may
risks and supports the delivery of a the client with the information and need to appoint suitably competent
whole building approach. Without the documents to maintain and update people to carry out those activities
golden thread information of other the golden thread as the work that they are not competent to
accountable persons, the principal undertake.
42