CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
2.0 The Legal Basis
Table 1: Duties related to managing and 2.26. Enabling easy access between
storing the golden thread (continued) people, across different teams,
and organisations will be essential.
Secure Throughout the lifecycle of the
The golden thread must be secure from unauthorised access. building, information will also have
to be transferred between different
Transferable
software platforms and when
• The golden thread information must be shared electronically with other persons who
ownership of the building changes.
have a professional interest in a building.
2.27. Meeting the golden thread
• The information must be held in an electronic format that ensures that when the
requirements will require some
information is transferred, the person receiving this can access and read it and without
dutyholders and accountable
any data being lost or corrupted.
persons to change the way they
• Information does not have to be provided electronically to residents or owners of flats,
approach management of information
although some may prefer to receive information in this way.
about buildings, ensuring that the
Understandable
information is recognised as being a
• The golden thread information must be understandable to the intended users and valuable asset in itself.
readers of the data.
2.28. Accountable persons will also need
• Any information provided to residents and owners of flats should include an explanation to comply with requirements around
of any technical language used, or with plain English summaries of complex or technical
security, commercial confidentiality
provisions.
and data protection when sharing
Up to date golden thread information. These
• So far as possible dutyholders and accountable persons are responsible for keeping the restrictions vary depending on the
golden thread information up to date. Dutyholders and accountable person will use this person who the information is being
up to date information to demonstrate ongoing compliance with building regulations and shared with though.
building safety duties.
2.29. The new building safety regime
• Some information will not have to be kept up to date but will provide a historic record requires HRBs to be considered as
of the building at a certain moment in time (for instance plans of the building upon
a single system. The requirements
completion).
to collect golden thread information
• Good practice encourages dutyholders and accountable persons to review their should be considered as part of the
information to ensure it is still relevant and useful. Not all information will need to be
wider programme of building safety
kept permanently and when certain golden thread information is updated previous
reforms.
versions will not need to be retained.
19