CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
Further detail 3.36. These plans have to be accompanied Competence declaration – dutyholders
by any other necessary design must be competent in the area they are
Design – such plans as necessary to show
responsible for
details, specifications and product
that the HRB work would comply with all
applicable requirements classification, such as structural,
3.38. The new Part 2A of the building
drainage, thermal, ventilation, fire
regulations48 sets requirements for
3.34. There should be a design which can be
safety systems, or water conservation
dutyholder duties and competence.
understood by all delivery participants
calculations.
Everyone who carries out design or
and if built to, would result in a
3.37. The building control approval building work must be competent
building that complies with the
application must be clear where it has for the work they carry out. Clients
functional requirements of the building
not been viable to produce sufficient need to ensure any necessary
regulations. This is achieved by
information at the point of application. checks have been carried out before
designers detailing plans which show
Those elements might be appropriate appointing competent people as
enough detail about the construction
to form a requirement imposed on any principal designer and principal
of the building.
application approval. Any outstanding contractor and need to be able to
3.35. Drawings and specifications must
information will need to be submitted demonstrate the steps they have
show compliance of the design with
and approved before that element of taken (this should include steps
the relevant technical requirements
the building work can start. taken to review the conduct of their
in the building regulations. The
proposed appointees in previous
plans and specifications will enable
roles). Checking competence should
dutyholders to understand what needs
include steps taken to review relevant
to be built to deliver a building which
past conduct. A suite of standards to
is in compliance with the building
raise the competence of those working
regulations and is safe. BS EN ISO
in buildings and support safety,
7519 Technical product documentation
under the BSA and Regulations are
(TPD) – construction documentation –
available49.
general principles of presentation for
3.39. The competence declaration sets
general arrangement and assembly
out a written record of the steps the
drawings47 sets out good practice in
client has taken and confirms the
relation to the development of plans,
client is satisfied that those they
such as general arrangement drawings
have appointed have the required
and assembly drawings.
competencies to carry out their roles.
29