CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
1.0 Introduction
The golden thread of information for 1.6. Greater competence is required
• Explain what golden thread
higher-risk buildings information the client, principal by all who collect and manage this
information, and processes need to
1.1. The golden thread of information contractor and principal designer
be put in place for good information
for higher-risk buildings (HRBs) was (dutyholders) need to generate
management. It should prompt more
one of the key recommendations and maintain during design and
collaborative and digital working,
made by Dame Judith Hackitt in construction and then to handover
reduce duplication, and promote
her Independent Review of Building to the person responsible for the
accountability.
Regulations and Fire Safety8 published HRB in occupation;
in 2018. It is intended to ensure • Explain what golden thread 1.7. Ultimately, the golden thread enables
that comprehensive, accurate and information the accountable dutyholders to assure themselves that
up to date electronic information persons need to keep and maintain their building complies with building
about a building is created during throughout the building’s lifecycle; regulations and for accountable
design, updated during construction, persons to demonstrate that the
• Outline the legal requirements for
provided at handover and completion, building is being managed safely. It
the golden thread of information;
maintained in operation and will also enable them to demonstrate
• Set out how the golden thread of
transferred when there is a change of this compliance and safe management
information can support better
ownership. to others, including, residents,
decision making throughout the
regulators, mortgage providers and
1.2. The Government accepted this
building’s lifecycle; and
insurers.
recommendation, and it was
• Challenge misconceptions about the
implemented through the Building
golden thread requirements.
Safety Act 20229 and subsequent
1.5. This guidance will be of benefit to
secondary legislation.
all with legal duties for HRBs, no
1.3. The purpose of the golden thread of
matter what their role or stage of
information is to give the right people
their building. Everyone involved
the right information at the right time
in HRBs needs to understand the
to understand a building and the steps
fundamentals of the golden thread,
needed to keep both the building
and to have a broad awareness of the
and the people safe, now and in the
entire process. This will provide the
future.
foundation blocks for the effective and
1.4. This guidance has been developed
holistic delivery of the golden thread
by industry practitioners for people
for a building.
working in the industry. It covers the
content of the golden thread. It is
intended to:
10