CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
The Building Advisory Committee
The Building Advisory Committee was
established under section 9 of the Building
Secretary of State (SoS)
Safety Act. The Committee provides advice
and information to the Building Safety
Regulator3 across its building functions, HSE Board
including its duties to facilitate building
safety in higher-risk buildings and keeping Internal HSE governance
under review safety and standards of all
buildings. The Committee advises on current
Chief Inspector of Buildings (CIB) BSR Internal Governance Processes
practice as well as on new and emerging
issues across the built environment. It also
BAC advice, intelligence and research
provides leadership across the industry. It
BAC Steering Group
does not advise on competence of persons
within the building industry or registered
building inspectors. Working Group Chairs
The Committee consists of a high-level
steering group, which meets at least Work strands/Working Groups set up in-line with
quarterly, supported by a number of building functions and BSR strategic plan
separate thematic working groups which
are focused on specific areas of work and Working Groups
meet as their workload requires. Members
- Building Regulations - New and Emerging Risks HSE and Government Science
are experienced and informed practitioners
- Higher Risk Buildings and Incidents governance processes overseen by
who are drawn from across the construction - Industry Engagement - Safety and Standards HSE’s Chief Scientific Advisor
and building industry. They have a variety - Trends and Innovations of all Buildings
of skills, knowledge and expertise, covering
fire safety, structural safety, the construction
industry, planning, housing and building
services engineering. They are all committed Figure 2: The Building Advisory Committee – operating model
group which produced the original definition
to working with the Building Safety Regulator
and principles for the golden thread4.
and the industry to improve standards.
Members all have knowledge and expertise
The Golden Thread Working Group is
of construction and operation of higher-
continuing the work of the former Building
risk buildings and of their management and
Regulations Advisory Committee working
operation.
5