CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX B - Legislative Requirements for dutyholders and accountable persons
I am a dutyholder - What golden thread requirements do I need to be aware of
if there is building work in an existing HRB?
These Regulations introduce a new building control process • how this golden thread information must be kept
The Building
for building work in an existing HRB. This work is overseen by (regulations 31(1) and (2));
(Higher-Risk
Buildings the BSR. • that the client must ensure that the principal designer
Procedures) The Regulations provide the detail of the building control and principal contractor have access to the golden thread
(England) regime and the requirements when building work is being information (regulation 31(1) and (2));
Regulations 2023 done to an existing HRB (known as higher-risk building work). • how and when the information must be updated
– SI 2023/90992
Part 4 of these Regulations specifically sets out the detailed throughout construction and who is responsible for
regulations relating to the provision of the golden thread for updating the information (regulations 31(4) and (6) to
new HRBs. (11));
For the golden thread of information the Regulations • what information must be handed over on building
specify: completion and when this information should be handed
• the information and documents that the client must over (regulation 38 and 39); and
ensure are kept as part of the golden thread of • how the information should be handed over on building
information before building work begins on a HRB completion and who to (regulation 38 and 39).
(regulations 31(3), (4), (6));
These Regulations amend the Building Regulations 2010 (the golden thread) (regulation 11 A).
The Building
Regulations etc. 2010 Regulations) to support the new higher-risk building • The client must provide building information as soon as
(Amendment) control regime, and provide for the BSR to be the only is practicable to every designer and contractor on the
(England) building control authority for all HRBs. project (regulation 11B)
Regulations 2023 The changes to the building control regime include a new • The client must ensure designer and contractors are
– SI 2023/91193 building control process for higher-risk building work, and aware that when a project includes higher-risk building
changes to non-higher-risk building work to raise standards work and therefore relevant requirements apply
across the built environment. These include clear legal (regulation 11 B).
responsibilities for those involved in the commissioning,
• The client must appoint a principal designer and a
design and construction of building work, and those who
principal contractor and must take all reasonable steps
carry out building control.
to ensure that the person appointed to role of principal
These Regulations set out requirements with regard to designer and principal contractor meets the competence
dutyholders and competence. requirements for that role (regulations 11 D to I)
For the golden thread of information the Regulations: • Specifies the duties of dutyholders (regulations 11 J to O).
• The client must make suitable arrangements for planning,
managing and monitoring a project so as to ensure
compliance with all relevant requirements (including the
66