CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
4.0 The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
4.22. Developing and maintaining the golden 4.24. An accurate golden thread of 4.27. Design and construction information
thread of information is an essential information will also enable which is not golden thread information
requirement of the new regime, as accountable persons to comply is very likely to be of significant
section 88(3) of the BSA66 makes with other legal and regulatory value in the day to day operation,
clear. It underpins the content of a requirements, such as those set out management, maintenance and future
safety case report and will be used to by the Regulator of Social Housing, refurbishment of the building even
demonstrate a good understanding of and various fire safety requirements. though it is not part of the golden
the building and that building safety thread.
New higher-risk buildings
risks are being identified, assessed, 4.28. The golden thread information will
mitigated and managed on an ongoing 4.25. The golden thread information that is evolve and should be managed and
basis. handed over at completion will support stored effectively (see section 2 of
the management of the building
this guidance). This includes all the
The golden thread of information for
in occupation. The information is
information:
the HRB in occupation regime handed over by the client to enable
• required for registration of a HRB;
Existing higher-risk buildings the building to be managed safely
• required for the key building
in operation. It is essential that the
4.23. The golden thread will include the information67 (within 28 days of
information is updated throughout
information about the building, details registration);
construction to ensure that accurate
and outcomes of risk assessments, as
information is handed over at building • specified in the Keeping
well as the safety features within the
completion. and Maintaining Information
building and management processes Regulations68, to support the
4.26. Not all the information from the
which ensure they remain effective.
development safety case report
design and construction phase that is
All of this information will be vital to and building assessment certificate
required to demonstrate compliance
preparing the safety case report and application;
with building regulations is needed to
assuring the accountable person that
meet the requirements for the in- • to support the development of the
the building is being managed safely.
occupation regime. Those in charge resident engagement strategy;
It will also demonstrate to residents
of an occupied building must make • to enable to effective ongoing
and to the BSR that the building is
informed decisions on the information management of the HRB and
being safely managed on an ongoing
they need for the golden thread. ensure the safety of the building
basis. The golden thread therefore
and its residents; and
needs to be maintained and kept up to
date to reflect the current state and • to enable updates to the BSR so
condition of the building. that the BSR can assess whether
the accountable persons are
meeting their legal duties.
43