CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX D - Large HRB portfolios
when the work was carried out, who it D1.12. Table 5 below sets out an example
was carried out by, evidence of their approach to the management of
competence to undertake the task, information about fire doors.
who decided that the door should
be replaced, and the reason for that Table 5: An example approach to the management of information about fire doors
decision. Fire doors are a fundamental element of the fire protection of a building. They must be
D1.10. Depending on the size of the correctly installed and regularly maintained. Accountable persons and principal accountable
persons will need to maintain an accurate and up to date record of the fire doors in the
organisation, multiple individuals
building, including:
may share responsibility for ensuring
that the golden thread information Asset data
remains up to date. Other users may • Location: Where it is and the fire compartments it protects
just have access to view, but not • Time/Date: When it was installed
amend, information. It is therefore • Risk: What material or materials it is made of
important to set out and agree policies • Design intent: what purpose is it serving in the context of fire and structural safety
and processes for how this is to • Systems: What is it linked to? Door closer, door frame, internal wall that is a line of
be managed to ensure consistency compartmentation, alarm system(s)
and avoid duplication or conflicting Related documents
information, this may include, for
• What certification the door has
example, a process for notifications
• What evidence is there of correct installation of the door set
where information has been amended.
Competence
D1.11. In addition to those with responsibility
• Who installed it and any formal competence
for ensuring that the golden thread
Maintenance
information is accurate and up to
date, other stakeholders, including • When and how often it needs to be checked
those who are internal and external • Records of previous checks
• Any actions taken as a result of previous checks
to the accountable person, are legally
• Who is responsible for managing these actions
required to have information shared
with them or will need to be able to Access to information
access and use information to carry • Where this information is held
out various functions. The policies and • Who is responsible for ensuring the information is accurate and up to date
processes that define the approach • Who else has access to it to update it
to information management should • Who else has access to read it
account for this. • Who needs to be provided with the information – residents, fire and rescue authority
73