CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX B - Legislative Requirements for dutyholders and accountable persons
I am a dutyholder - What golden thread requirements do I need to be aware
of if I am building a new HRB from 1st October 2023?
For the golden thread of information: • These regulations would apply to any building work to
The Building
create a new HRB and any building work to an existing
Safety Act 202281 • The Act gives the Secretary of State the power to amend
HRB. This is set out in section 33 of the Act.
building regulations to make requirements around what
information is kept as golden thread information for a • NB The BSA and The Higher-Risk Buildings (Descriptions
HRB. and Supplementary Provisions) Regulations 202382 define
a HRB.
• The Act gives the power to make regulations on the
sharing of this information and how it is kept.
These Regulations introduce a new building control process • how this golden thread information must be kept
The Building
for building work creating a new HRB or building work in an (regulations 31(1) and (2)). The Regulations set
(Higher-Risk
HRB. This work is overseen by the BSR. out that the golden thread must be accessible,
Buildings
Procedures) accurate, accountable, electronic, secure, transferable,
The Regulations provide the detail of the building control
(England) understandable and up to date;
regime and the requirements on dutyholders when a new
Regulations 2023
HRB is being designed and constructed (known as higher-risk • that the client must ensure that the principal designer
– SI 2023/90983
building work). and principal contractor have access to the golden thread
information (regulation 31(1) and (2));
Part 4 of these Regulations specifically sets out the detailed
regulations relating to the provision of the golden thread for • how and when the information must be updated
new HRBs. throughout construction and who is responsible for
updating the information (regulations 31(4) and (6) to
For the golden thread of information, the Regulations
(11));
specify:
• what information must be handed over on building
• the information and documents that the client must
completion and when this information should be handed
ensure are kept as part of the golden thread of
over (regulation 38 and 39); and
information before building work begins on a HRB
(regulations 31(3), (4) and (6)); • how the information should be handed over on building
completion and who to (regulations 38 and 39).
62