CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
2.0 The Legal Basis
• in occupation – it is an accurate and up Outline of the regulatory regime 2.13. The BSA, through sections 33, 88, 89
to date electronic record of the building and 90, and associated Regulations,
2.9. The Ministry of Housing, Communities
as it is managed, maintained, repaired, places legal duties on dutyholders
and Local Government (MHCLG) is
refurbished and altered to support (Part 3) and accountable persons
responsible for building safety policy.
accountable persons in managing building (Part 4). These duties are to create,
The primary legislation that underpins
safety. obtain, update, maintain and share
the golden thread is the Building
information and documents about a
Safety Act 2022 (BSA)10.
Remember the golden thread is not:
HRB: this information is known as
2.10. The BSA has 6 Parts and put in place
• just a repository of technical information the golden thread. This requirement
a new and enhanced regulatory
and documents about the building; applies to both HRBs proposed to be
regime for building control, building
• a tick box exercise to satisfy the HRB or currently under construction as well
safety and construction products, and
building control stages; as to existing occupied HRBs.
ensures residents have a stronger
• records of actions that have been voice in the system. It established 2.14. The HRB regime is wide-ranging
completed; new bodies, duties and systems and is set out in different pieces of
legislation. As the golden thread
• something that is rarely used; and introduced requirements for all
requirements are integral to the
buildings and additional requirements
• information just to be produced for
HRB regime, this means that the
for HRBs.
regulators;
golden thread requirements are not
2.11. The BSA also includes changes to
• a particular format; consolidated in one place in the law,
existing legislation including the
• simply a product or software solution; rather they are spread across these
Architects Act 199711, the Building Act
different pieces of legislation.
• a consultancy service; or 198412, the Defective Premises Act
2.15. Three sets of Regulations outline the
• a lot of paperwork that doesn’t relate to 197213, the Housing Act 199614, and
main duties and detail, including what
what is happening on a day to day basis. further changes to the Regulatory
information has to be kept as golden
Reform (Fire Safety) Order 200515,
thread information and how the
2.8. Competent individuals will need to building on the Fire Safety Act 202116.
information should be kept:
be engaged to contribute to the 2.12. The BSA divides the lifecycle of a HRB
• The Building (Higher-Risk Buildings
development of the golden thread between design and construction,
Procedures) (England) Regulations
and there should be organisational which is covered in Part 3 of the
2023 – SI 2023/90917;
capability to develop the required Act, and occupation of the building,
processes and procedures that which is covered in Part 4 of the Act. • The Higher-Risk Buildings
underpin it. This is not an audit The BSA is supported by a suite of (Management of Safety Risks etc)
exercise by the Building Safety secondary legislation. (England) Regulations 2023 – SI
Regulator (BSR). 2023/90718; and
13