CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
4.0 The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
4.8. These regulations deliver on Dame any part of the common parts”. The (England) Regulations62 to ensure
Judith Hackitt’s 2018 call for the accountable person will often be an that any person responsible for or
golden thread, a digital record of organisation rather than an individual. assisting with compliance with a duty
accurate and reliable information 4.11. There can be multiple accountable in or under Part 4 of the BSA63 has the
about a HRB, which formed part of persons for a HRB due to the relevant competence.
the Independent Review of Building ownership and legal arrangements 4.14. In practice, this means appointing the
Regulations and Fire Safety59. This for the building. If there is just right people or organisations, with the
was triggered by evidence of a very one accountable person for a right competencies and capabilities
widespread lack of knowledge of basic building, then they are the principal for the work, and ensuring those
structural and fire safety information accountable person. Where there is they appoint have systems in place
about many occupied HRBs in the more than one accountable person to ensure they comply with their
aftermath of the Grenfell Tower then the owner or person with a legal duties under Part 4 and capture the
tragedy. obligation to repair the structure evidence of that in the golden thread.
4.9. These two sets of regulations are in and exterior of the building is the However, ultimate accountability for
addition to the regulations covering principal accountable person. They will making sure those tasks are carried
the legal description of existing HRBs, usually be an organisation such as a out appropriately and the liability for
their registration and provision of key social housing provider, commonhold a building’s safety remains with the
building information about the building association or the freeholder for a accountable persons.
to the Building Safety Regulator leasehold block. 4.15. The golden thread is “both the
(BSR). Further details of these are set 4.12. Further guidance is available on GOV. information that allows you to
out in section 2 of this guidance under UK on who is an accountable person understand a building and the steps
legislative requirements. or principal accountable person61. needed to keep both the building and
4.13. Accountable persons cannot delegate people safe, now and in the future.”
Accountable persons
their legal obligations to others. It provides the information that will
4.10. Section 72 of the BSA defines the
They can employ an organisation or enable an accountable person to
accountable person responsible for
individual, like a managing agent, to understand a building and what they
the safety of an occupied HRB under
carry out duties on their behalf. They need to do to keep the building itself
Part 460. Accountable persons have
can commission competent specialists and those who occupy or visit it safe,
legal responsibility for building safety
to undertake structural or fire safety now and in the future.
obligations, including managing the
investigations or undertake fire risk
spread of fire and structural safety
assessments. Accountable persons
risks, of a HRB. The accountable
are required under The Higher-Risk
person is usually a “person who
Building (Management of Safety Risks)
holds a legal estate in possession in
41