CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
2.0 The Legal Basis
2.25. Dutyholders and accountable persons Table 1: Duties related to managing
and storing the golden thread
have an ongoing responsibility to
ensure that the golden thread is held
Accessible
and managed in a way that meets
• The golden thread information must be provided as soon as reasonably practicable to
these requirements. Table 1 provides
those who need the information.
further detail on the duties.
• Dutyholders must share information with each other, and the client must handover
golden thread information on building completion or completion of building work. If
dutyholders leave their role they must transfer information to the new dutyholder.
• Accountable persons are under a duty to share information with each other and others
including the client, Responsible Persons, residents, owners of flats, the fire and rescue
services and in certain circumstances the landlords of residents. Accountable persons
must transfer information to the new accountable person when they leave their role.
Accountable
• The golden thread information should only be changed in accordance with procedures
which record the person who made the change and the date of that change.
• This supports greater accountability and transparency as there is a clear audit trail of
those responsible throughout the building and management process.
Accurate
• The golden thread information has to be accurate. Accuracy is crucial for trust and
reliability. The higher-risk regime requires clear change control processes to both
manage the golden thread information and the activities that trigger changes to the
information. This supports greater accuracy.
• Good practice encourages people to use clear and consistent definitions of terms. This
is not a requirement of the legislation but it is good practice for better information
management systems. This will support greater accuracy as the same term will mean
the same thing throughout the system.
Electronic
• The golden thread must be kept in an electronic format.
• There are no restrictions on the format it is kept in or on the type of software used
except that it must be held in a way that when the information is transferred. The
person receiving this can access and read it.
18