CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
Summary – The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
Background • The golden thread of information • New HRBs - Design and construction
underpins the content of a safety case information which is not golden thread
• The golden thread of information
report and will be used to demonstrate information is very likely to be of
will enable an accountable person to
a good understanding of the building significant value in the day to day
understand a building and what they need
and that building safety risks are being operation, management, maintenance
to do to keep the building itself and those
identified, assessed, mitigated and and future refurbishment of the building.
who occupy or visit it safe, now and in
managed on an ongoing basis.
the future.
• The golden thread information will
evolve and should be managed and
• Accountable persons have legal
HRB in occupation regime
stored effectively (see section 2 of
responsibility for building safety
• Existing HRBs - The golden thread this guidance). This includes all the
obligations, including managing the
will include the information about information:
fire spread and structural safety risks,
the building, details and outcomes
of a higher-risk building (HRB). The
• required for registration of a HRB; and
of risk assessments, as well as the
accountable person will often be an
safety features within the building and • to support the safety case report
organisation rather than an individual.
management processes which ensure and building assessment certificate
• If there is just one accountable person they remain effective.
application.
for a building, then they are the principal
• New HRBs - During occupation the golden
accountable person. Where there is more Content of the golden thread
thread information is the information the
than one accountable person then the
accountable person needs to demonstrate • Schedule 1 of The Higher-Risk Buildings
owner or person with a legal obligation
that building safety risks are being (Keeping and Provision of Information
to repair the structure and exterior of
managed. Buildings safety risks are the etc.) (England) Regulations sets out in
the building is the principal accountable
risk of structural failure and the spread of detail the golden thread information that
person.
fire. accountable persons must keep for a
• Where there are multiple accountable particular HRB.
• New HRBs - The golden thread
persons for a building, they must
• The golden thread of information with be
information that is handed over at
coordinate and cooperate to ensure
used to support the safety case report.
completion will support the management
golden thread information is shared.
of the building in occupation. • Whilst well managed organisations
• The accountable person must make should have a significant amount of the
• New HRBs - Not all the information from
suitable arrangements to ensure that the information required, it may not be in the
the design and construction phase that is
building is being managed safely. prescribed form. Some information will be
required to demonstrate compliance with
available from:
• The accountable person must ensure building regulations is needed to meet
that any person responsible for or the requirements for the in-occupation • registration;
assisting with compliance with Part 4 of regime. Those in charge of an occupied
• key building information;
the Building Safety Act (BSA) has the building must make informed decisions on
relevant competence. the information they need for the golden • fire safety management; and
thread. • management of building safety risks.
54