CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
4.0 The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
Scope 4.3. Meeting these requirements should 4.6. The regulations relating to the golden
contribute to the safer management thread do require accountable persons
4.1. This section is intended to explain
of HRBs, to improving resident safety to obtain and maintain information
what golden thread information an
and rebuilding resident trust. about their building. To assist
accountable person must keep about
an occupied higher-risk building 4.4. Throughout this guidance the principal accountable persons in understanding
(HRB) to comply with their building accountable person and accountable the requirements and to better enable
safety duties and demonstrate the persons are referred to as accountable them to demonstrate why they need
safe management of their building. It persons. However, where there are to obtain and hold information the
applies to: specific duties which only the principal specific regulations are referenced
accountable person must carry out, in the text of this section. This will
• An existing occupied HRB;
the guidance will specifically refer to support accountable persons in
• A new HRB (once a completion
the ‘principal accountable person’ as explaining what they require from
certificate has been issued for it);
necessary. consultants and third parties and
and
also to demonstrate to residents of
4.5. Building work relating to occupied
• An existing HRB on which work has their building what they must do to
HRBs can range from small
been carried out (once a completion comply with the new regime and to
refurbishment work in a single flat,
certificate has been issued for the demonstrate the safe management of
to a refurbishment or redevelopment
work). the building.
of the whole building. In addition,
4.2. The golden thread includes
the occupants of HRBs may be
Background
information and documents relating to
private leaseholders or tenants or
the building: 4.7. The legislation governing occupied
social housing tenants. Accountable
HRBs is set out in Part 4 of the
• required for the registration of the persons can range from investment
Building Safety Act (BSA)56. The
building; and development companies to
specific legal requirements for the
• required for the building housing providers who develop and
golden thread of information for
assessment certificate application; then manage the finished building. A
HRBs in occupation are set out in
and substantial proportion of accountable
detail in Schedule 1 of The Higher-
persons are Resident Management
• required as part of the application
Risk Buildings (Keeping and Provision
for the completion certificate for Committees or Right to Manage
of Information etc.) (England)
a new HRB or relating to building bodies. The accountable person will
Regulations57 and in The Higher-Risk
work on an existing HRB (if have to define the content of their
Buildings (Management of Safety Risks
relevant). golden thread information for their
etc) (England) Regulations58.
individual building. It is not possible to
provide specific technical guidance for
every scenario or project.
40