CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX D - Large HRB portfolios
Performance Evaluation
Questions an accountable person can ask themselves include:
D1.33. Previous sections have provided
• Which aspects of the risk management system can be measured and analysed? (e.g.
guidance on the need to develop plans
false alarms on the alarm system, the length of time taken to complete risk assessment
and implement fire and structural actions, or whether residents feel safe in the building.)
safety activities. Critically, for a safety
• How have I improved performance of the risk management system overall? (e.g.
management system to be effective,
residents feel safer, or residents are now given guidance on lithium ion battery charging
the next two sections (Performance etc.)
Evaluation and Improvement) must be
• What steps have I taken to conform to the recommendations provided in its risk
implemented. It is these sections that
assessments?
generate the continuous improvement
• How will I test my procedures for emergencies/incidents, and what were the results of
aspect of risk management, which
these tests?
distinguishes a risk management
systems approach from a tick box • How will I manage the performance of contractors to improve their performance over
time?
approach.
D1.34. Performance evaluation is fundamental • How will I conduct regular audits to assess whether the risk management system is
working effectively? (e.g. can I provide evidence that all of the commitments in the
to any management system, as it
safety case file are complied with?)
allows the accountable person to
measure the effectiveness of their • How will I ensure their risk management system is reviewed impartially?
plans, and to make improvements • How will I report results of the audit to interested parties? (e.g. residents.)
where they are on offer.
• How will I ensure findings of the audit are implemented without delay?
• How will I ensure that the risk management strategy is aligned with the building’s fire
risk strategy?
• How will I ensure that accidents and near misses are captured and used to inform the
risk management system?
• How will I collate and report information to the BSR under mandatory occurrence
reporting requirements?
• How will I record and demonstrate the performance evaluation of the risk management
system?
79