CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
Scope 3.2. It includes all the information and Background
documents:
3.1. This section provides guidance on 3.5. The new regime strengthens regulatory
• required for the building control
the golden thread information and oversight before building work
approval application at gateway two;
documents that the client, principal commences, throughout construction
designer and principal contractor • required due to changes during and before a building is occupied.
(dutyholders) need to obtain and construction work (i.e. information It includes stop/go decision points
update: which has been updated through the (gateways) that must be passed
• through the design and construction construction process); and before a development can proceed
phases for creating a new higher- • required for the completion to the next stage. This new approach
risk building (HRB), either by certificate application at gateway continues into the ‘build’ phase where
building new or changing the use of three. those management arrangements set
an existing building; 3.3. This information will allow dutyholders out in the approved building control
application (gateway two) are put into
• for projects where HRB work is to ensure they are designing and
practice ensuring that the design that
to be undertaken to an existing building a building that complies with
was approved is what is built and that
building; the functional requirements of the
the right evidence is being collected
building regulations38. It will also enable
• for the handover of completed
to support the completion certificate
dutyholders to demonstrate this to
construction work for a new HRB;
application (gateway three).
others if requested.
and
3.6. A new building can only be registered
3.4. Building work relating to HRBs can
• for the handover of completed
with the BSR for occupation once the
range from small refurbishment work
building work in an existing HRB.
completion certificate application has
in a single flat, to a new complex multi-
been approved (gateway three) either
tower mixed used development. In
This includes: all new HRBs under
for partial or full completion.
construction from 1st October addition, the occupants of HRBs can
2023; and HRBs which were under vary from private and/or social housing, 3.7. The effective creation and management
construction before 1st October 2023 as can the clients, from investment and of the golden thread during the design
but are no longer under transitional development companies to housing and construction phases will not only
arrangements and have transferred to providers who go on to manage the bring greater assurance on the delivery
the Building Safety Regulator (BSR).
finished building. Therefore, it is not of a compliant and safe building, but
possible to provide specific technical contribute to comprehensive building
guidance for every scenario or control approval and completion
project. The client will have to define applications. In turn this supports
the content of their golden thread better communication and collaboration
information for each individual project. with those who have duties in the
occupation stage.
23