CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
Summary – The Legal Basis
Understanding the fundamentals Outline of the regulatory regime • who is responsible for keeping and
updating the information; and
• Everyone involved in higher-risk • The legal basis for the new regime for
buildings (HRBs) need to understand HRBs is set out in the Building Safety • that information from the golden
the fundamentals for the golden Act 2022 (BSA). The golden thread is an thread needs to be shared throughout
thread. integral part of this new regime the lifecycle of the building, and who
and when this information needs to be
• Good information management should • The legal powers that enable the
shared.
not be something new. requirements of the golden thread of
information for HRBs are contained in the
• The golden thread allows Managing and storing the golden
BSA. The detailed requirements are set
understanding of a building and the
thread
out in secondary legislation. Guidance is
steps needed to keep both the building
available to support compliance with these • The golden thread of information should be
and people safe, now and in the future.
duties. managed and stored effectively.
• The golden thread is electronic
• The BSA places legal duties on • Information should be: Accessible,
information created, obtained, updated,
dutyholders (Part 3) and accountable Accountable, Accurate, Electronic, Secure,
maintained and shared for the life of
persons (Part 4) to keep and maintain Transferable, Understandable and Up to
the building.
information about a HRB - this date.
• The golden thread is not a tick box
information is known as the golden thread • Information should be periodically
exercise or simply a product or
information. reviewed and supported by effective
software solution.
• There are 3 key Regulations for the change control processes.
• Competent individuals will need to
implementation of the golden thread. • There should be structured storage
be engaged to contribute to the
These detail the requirements for the and shareability for the information
development of the golden thread
information which has to be kept as whilst maintaining security, commercial
and there should be organisational
golden thread information and how the confidentiality and data protection.
capability to develop the required
golden thread should be kept.
• Greater competence is required by all
processes and procedures that
• A further 4 Regulations for the HRB who collect and manage golden thread
underpin it.
regime interlink with the above information, and processes need to be put
• The golden thread is your information,
regulations for the golden thread of in place for good information management.
for your building, to assure you and
information.
• Building information is a valuable asset in
your residents that the building is
• The BSA and Regulations set out: itself.
safe and demonstrate that you are
• what information needs to be kept as • Effective management of the golden thread
managing it safely - be curious about
golden thread information; will bring greater collaborative and digital
your building.
• how it should be kept; working, reduce duplication, and promote
accountability.
21