CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
2.0 The Legal Basis
Understanding the fundamentals 2.5. For the purposes of HRBs, building Remember the golden thread is:
safety risks are the spread of fire and
2.1. The concept of the golden thread • individual, bespoke, and specific to
structural safety. This means that
is simple: a continuous and holistic your building and group of residents/
information collected through the
process and approach to good occupants;
design and construction stages will
information management. • continuous, holistic and requires a chain
need to be divided into the ongoing
2.2. The golden thread of information of responsibility (e.g. clarity on who is
golden thread information (and
is intended to deliver accurate responsible for updating the information);
documents) that relate to the spread
information about the building to • electronic information about the building
of fire and structural safety and any
those that need it and to support that is created, obtained, updated,
other information about the building.
those people to use that information maintained and shared;
2.6. The information on the spread of fire
to comply with building regulations
• the information and processes that enable
and structural safety will need to
(in design and construction) and
the right decisions to be made by the
be kept and maintained to meet the
managing spread of fire and structural
right people, all the time; and
requirements for the golden thread
risks (in occupation).
during the in-occupation regime by • the golden thread will alter and develop
2.3. The golden thread is both:
the accountable persons. throughout the life of the building (from
• the information about a building design to occupation):
2.7. Those in charge of an occupied
that allows someone to understand
building should make informed • at the design stage – it is the information
a building and keep it safe; and
decisions on the information that to demonstrate how the design, if built,
• the information management is within the golden thread and will comply with building regulations.
systems and processes to ensure
information about the building that • in construction – it is evidence that the
the information is accurate, easily
has value to them but is not within approved design is being built and that
understandable, can be accessed
the golden thread. Information that any changes are managed and comply
by those who need it and is up to
is handed over from the design and with building regulations.
date.
construction phase that does not
• at handover and completion – it is
2.4. During design and construction the need to be kept as golden thread
evidence that the completed building
golden thread is the information information is very likely to be of
complies with building regulations and
required to comply with all relevant significant value in the day to day
provides a comprehensive and accurate
building regulations. In occupation operation, management, maintenance
electronic record of the finished building
the golden thread is the information and refurbishment of the building even
for the accountable person.
required to demonstrate that building though it is not part of the golden
safety risks are being managed. thread.
12