CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
4.0 The golden thread for occupied higher-risk buildings
Information for residents and third 4.51. Regulation 14 with Schedule 3 set out 4.52. Regulations 5, 6, 9, and 10 to 13 set
parties the information and documents that out information and documents to
4.49. Part 3 of The Higher-Risk Buildings an accountable person is required be provided to various non-resident
(Keeping and Provision of Information to provide to a resident and owner parties with an interest in or duties
etc.) Regulations80 sets out the of a flat in a HRB where a request in relation to the building, including
information and documents that a has been made by that resident or where a new accountable person takes
principal accountable person or an flat owner for that information or over responsibility for part of a HRB.
accountable person is required to document.
give to people with an interest in the
building such as:
• residents;
An accountable person has to:
• owners of flats;
• provide certain information to the BSR in cases of insolvency of the accountable
• other accountable persons in the
person;
building;
• Responsible Persons in the building; • provide the golden thread information they are required to keep to the other
accountable persons and Responsible Persons in the HRB;
• landlords of residents;
• the BSR; • provide information to all owners of residential units in the building who own flats in
the part of the building that they are responsible for. The specific information is set
• the local fire and rescue service;
out in schedule 2 of the Regulations;
and
• the client for building work in the • provide a copy of the contravention notice to the landlord of a resident, if they issue a
contravention notice to a resident who does not own their residential unit;
building.
4.50. Regulations 7 and 8 make provision • provide information to a client in relation to any project which relates to the part of a
for residents and owners of flats in a building for which the accountable person is responsible; and
HRB to be given certain information
• an accountable person has to provide certain information to the local fire and rescue
and copies of documents by an authority. All accountable persons have to provide a limited amount of information
accountable person in accordance with but further information has to be provided by the principal accountable person.
what is set out in Schedule 2.
52