CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
Handover and Completion – The evidence • a copy of each accompanying 3.28. However, that other information
to demonstrate that the completed building document which was submitted as is very likely to be of significant
complies with the building regulations and
part of the completion certificate value in the day to day operation,
a comprehensive and accurate record of the
application (or partial completion management, maintenance and
building has been handed over
certificate application); refurbishment of the building even
3.24. The golden thread information must be • extracts from the golden thread though it is not part of the golden
handed over at building completion (or information from throughout thread.
completion of building work) to enable the design and building work 3.29. Clients responsible for HRBs that were
the relevant person to understand, concerned with specified parts of under construction before 1st October
operate and maintain the building and the provisions in schedule 1 of the 2023 and are part of the transitional
the systems in it. Receipt of this must Building Regulations 2010 relating arrangements in building control will
be confirmed by the person who has to fire safety (part B), ventilation not be under a legal duty to handover
received the information and that it is (part F), energy (part L) and golden thread information on building
accessible and in a useable format. overheating (part O). This is known completion. They will be under a
3.25. The golden thread information is as the BFLO information.45 legal duty to handover fire safety
handed over by the client to the: • a copy of the completion certificate information. However, the person
• principal accountable person or (or partial completion certificate) responsible for the building when it
accountable person for a higher-risk from the BSR when approved. is occupied (the accountable person)
residential building; and/or 3.27. Information that has been handed will have to comply with the golden
thread requirements in occupation.
• Responsible Person for a non- over to the appointed person from the
Therefore, it is likely that they will
residential building or non- design and construction phases, will
request design and construction
residential parts of the building (a need to be reviewed and a judgement
information about the building to
hospital or a care home) (only the made on:
develop their golden thread. It is
relevant fire safety information)44. • what information is required as
recommended that the client is able
By ensuring the information is updated ongoing golden thread information
to provide this information to the
throughout construction, this means (and documents) that relate to
accountable person.
accurate information is handed over at structural and fire safety; and
building completion.
• other information about the
building that has value to the
3.26. The golden thread information that the
accountable person but is not
client must handover is:
within the golden thread.
• a copy of the completion certificate
application (or partial completion
certificate application);
26