CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
Construction control plan – managing • quality control, monitoring and Change Control Plan – controlling and
and ensuring that compliance is maintained auditing procedures; evidencing any changes during construction
through the construction process
• ongoing competence of those
3.45. Any changes to the documents
3.40. The purpose of a construction control associated with the design and approved at the building control
plan is to describe the strategies, building work; application stage (gateway 2) (the
policies and procedures that are • coordination and communication agreed documents) is a controlled
intended to ensure that building work between dutyholders: and change. This includes changes in
will be managed to maintain building • records of compliance. organisations or personnel as well
regulations compliance. This includes as changes to building design or
3.43. All of the arrangements, outlined
the policies and procedures intended management arrangements. All
above, should be set out in the
to ensure that the robust evidence controlled changes must be recorded
construction control plan. The detail
is captured throughout construction in the change control log and the
available in Schedule 1 of The Building
to support the completion certificate relevant documents need to be
(Higher-Risk Buildings Procedures)
application. That evidence of updated (although each change needs
(England) Regulations50 outlines
compliance forms a critical part of the to be recorded, not every change
elements that should be covered.
golden thread. needs to be notified to the BSR).
3.44. It is essential that once a compliant
3.41. It should be a practical and useful 3.46. The client must establish policies and
design has been achieved and
document describing the working procedures for controlling, recording
communicated at building control
arrangements that a principal and assessing the impact of any
approval, then the aims of that design
contractor and all other contractors controlled change. This should be
intent should not be lost during the
should follow. It will also support the set out in the change control plan.
construction process.
change log. Procedures should ensure that change
3.42. The client and their teams must is properly understood, recorded
ensure that they have suitable accurately and that appropriate action
mechanisms set up to manage is taken promptly in response to any
compliance throughout the controlled change. Not all changes
construction process. Those require the same response.51
mechanisms should address: 3.47. The change control log will be an
• provision of information, instruction important document that allows the
and training; client and others to be satisfied that
the requirement to assess and record
• management and supervision of
all controlled changes has been met.
the building work;
30