CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
• the internal linings and any • BS 9991 Fire safety in the design, Mandatory Occurrence Reporting Plan
penetrations through them will management and use of residential – Reporting and recording occurrences of
incidents of non-compliance that (if not
resist excessive spread of fire and buildings - code of practice: sets
rectified) could have resulted in serious
smoke; out good practice in relation to
safety risk
• the structure is to resist premature building safety risks relating to
collapse and contribute to the fire.54 3.58. If, during the construction phase, it
containment of a fire; • BS 9792 Fire risk assessment is discovered that there has been an
• the building will resist ignition from – housing – code of practice incident or a risk of an incident, which
a fire in an adjacent building and (currently under development): if not remedied could cause either;
will not endanger adjacent buildings sets out good practice in relation structural failure of the building or the
from the effects of a fire in or on to building safety risks relating to spread of fire or smoke in the building,
the building; and fire.55 that could cause serious harm to a
significant number of people when the
• the building design will assist
building is in use. Then details of that
firefighting operations.
occurrence need to be recorded and
3.56. Anyone carrying out design and
reported to the BSR.
construction work needs to have
3.59. The client must ensure that a
a good understanding about the
mechanism is put in place to allow for
fire strategy and systems – this
those occurrences that are mandatory
is provided through the fire and
to report are reported by relevant
emergency file.
persons in the design and construction
3.57. There are a number of standards that
teams. The detail of this plan is to be
provide guidance:
set out in the Mandatory Occurrence
• BS EN ISO 31000 Risk management Reporting Plan. This plan will form
guidelines: sets out good practice part of the building control approval
in relation to risk management.52 application. The information generated
• BS 8644-1 Digital management of by the reporting requirement will
fire safety information - code of enable lessons to be learned by the
practice: management of digital wider industry and government.
asset information in the built
environment, particularly fire safety
information.53
32