CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX B - Legislative Requirements for dutyholders and accountable persons
I am a dutyholder - What golden thread requirements do I need to be aware
of if I am building a new HRB from 1st October 2023?
These Regulations amend the Building Regulations 2010 (the For the golden thread of information the Regulations
The Building
2010 Regulations) to support the new higher-risk building specify:
Regulations etc.
(Amendment) control regime and provide for the BSR to be the only building • The client must make suitable arrangements for planning,
(England) control authority for all HRBs. managing and monitoring a project so as to ensure
Regulations 2023 The changes to the building control regime include a new compliance with all relevant requirements (including the
– SI 2023/91184 building control process for higher-risk building work, and golden thread) (regulation 11 A).
changes to non-higher-risk building work to raise standards • The client must provide building information as soon as
across the built environment. These include clear legal is practicable to every designer and contractor on the
responsibilities for those involved in the commissioning, project (regulation 11 B).
design and construction of building work, and those who • The client must ensure designer and contractors are
carry out building control aware that when a project includes higher-risk building
These Regulations set out requirements with regard to work and therefore relevant requirements apply
dutyholders and competence. (regulation 11 B).
• The client must appoint a principal designer and a
principal contractor and must take all reasonable steps
to ensure that the person appointed to role of principal
designer and principal contractor meets the competence
requirements for that role (regulations 11 D to I).
• The duties of dutyholders (regulations 11 J to O).
The term “higher-risk building” in design and construction
The Higher-
is defined in Section 31 of the BSA as a building in England
Risk Buildings
that is at least 18 metres in height or has at least 7 storeys
(Descriptions and
Supplementary and give powers to the Secretary of State to make further
Provisions) regulations on the definition of a higher-risk building.
Regulations 2023 -
These Regulations supplement that definition and specify that
SI 2023/27585
higher-risk building in design and construction has to also
include two residential units or be a care home or hospital
that meets the height threshold.
63