CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
ANNEX D - Large HRB portfolios
D1.21. In this example, it should be D1.24. BS 9997103 and BS EN ISO 45001104
The questions an organisation can ask
understood that a good systemic give detailed assistance on building
itself, to set its context, include:
approach to safety will rely upon a systemic risk management system.
• What issues are likely to impact the
information being kept regarding However, there are seven core
accountable person’s organisation, and
previous customer communications principles that are common to the
how will it monitor them? (e.g. how is
about the fire door closers. It will majority of risk management systems the organisation going to keep up to
also include documents detailing and these are laid out below. date with new building safety law or
the procurement method used to product recalls? etc.)
Context of the Organisation
source the new fire doors and closers
• What are the interested parties that the
and to appoint the installer. It will D1.25. Note that the word ‘system’ does not accountable person needs to consider
help to identify whether the criteria refer to an IT system. It refers to in the Risk Management System? (e.g.
used to source the doors meant an a risk management system, a well residents, regulators, other accountable
inferior product was chosen because thought out, step by step process for persons, neighbouring properties,
contractors, the public and visitors,
it was cheaper, without a competent controlling safety risks.
other Responsible Persons under the
assessment of the consequence of D1.26. Understanding the context of an Regulatory Reform (Fire safety) Order
selecting the cheaper option. organisation is foundational to building etc.)
D1.22. For a smaller organisation, perhaps a proportionate risk management
• Understand how the organisation
managing only one HRB, this may system. An organisation with one HRB will establish, implement, maintain
just involve retaining the quotes for can achieve a good systemic approach and continually improve the risk
the door closers, and the reason why with a less complex system, as they management system (e.g. has the
the successful quotation was chosen. are unlikely to have as many external, accountable person written down
processes for managing the building
Critically, once the root cause is nor internal, stakeholders.
safely?)
identified, the PDCA cycle will then D1.27. Whereas an organisation that
enable the problem to be identified has eighty HRBs will require a • What are the desired outcomes of the
processes the accountable person has
and lessons to be learnt to avoid this sophisticated system to manage such
in place, and how will it monitor they
situation in the future. a significant number of properties
are working to control the risks in the
D1.23. This approach to managing building and residents. It will likely have many building(s)?
safety risks relies on holding the external interested parties, including
• What resources are available to operate
golden thread information to enable multiple regulatory bodies across a
the risk management system and are
updating, maintaining, and periodically varied geography. It will also likely they adequate?
reviewing the steps taken with regard have multiple internal stakeholders,
• How will the organisation chronicle the
to identifying building safety risks in such as repairs teams or IT teams,
improvements they make to processes
the HRB. that are important to establishing a over time?
strong safety system.
75