CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
3.0 The golden thread for the design, construction and building work on HRBs
3.30. Once the golden thread is handed • The change control log; 3.33. A completion certificate is required
over and building work is complete, • The latest version of any to register a higher-risk residential
a building completion certificate ‘accompanying document’ that building. Residents are not allowed to
application (or partial completion was approved at GW2 (the ‘agreed occupy a new higher-risk residential
application) can be submitted to the documents’): building until it has been registered.
BSR by the client. A completion
• construction control plan;
certificate application can only be
• change control plan and the
submitted after the building work has
change control log;
been completed. Construction activity
which is not technically building work, • mandatory occurrence
such as decorating or landscaping, can reporting plan;
be carried out after an application has • building regulations compliance
been submitted. statement;
3.31. The application must contain sufficient • Fire and Emergency File;
information to show how the building
• a statement, signed by the
conforms to the approved design
Client, confirming that to the
and satisfies all the applicable
best of the Client’s knowledge
functional requirements of the building
the work complies with the
regulations. Dutyholders must also
relevant building regulations;
indicate their change control process
• a compliance declaration; and
and confirm that all changes have
• confirmation from the relevant
not changed their assessment of
person that they have received
compliance.
the golden thread and relevant
3.32. The application for a completion
handover information from the
certificate must be made in writing
Client.
and signed by the Client. It will need
However, if the completion certificate
to include a description of the work
is solely for category B building work
and be accompanied by:
you will only need to submit the
• a notice stating the date on which
accompanying documents from the
the building work was completed;
list above that were approved in your
• ‘as built’ plans and information;
GW2 application.
27