CLC | Delivering the golden thread: Practical Guidance | August 2024
Scope
Section 4 – sets out the golden thread Throughout this guidance: finished building and resident management
information required to be kept during • the principal accountable person and companies or right to manage bodies. The
occupation and sets out: accountable person are referred to as accountable persons will have to define the
content of their golden thread information
• the golden thread requirements for accountable persons. However, where
for their individual building and to meet their
accountable persons responsible for there are specific duties which only the
individual needs.
existing HRBs; principal accountable person must carry
• the information expected to be kept as out, the guidance will specifically refer Building work relating to occupied HRBs
golden thread information for an existing to the ‘principal accountable person’ as can range from small refurbishment work
building; and necessary: and in a single flat, to a refurbishment or
• organisational information management • the information and documents that redevelopment of the whole building. The
to support the golden thread for those are held as golden thread information, golden thread information requirements
organisations that manage multiple HRBs, are referred to as the ‘golden thread therefore will vary between different
and how it relates to other requirements information’. However, if there are projects.
in the sector. specific requirements that relate to just This technical guidance aims to bring all
the ‘information’ or the ‘documents’ the
This section will be of particular relevance to information about the golden thread into one
guidance will specifically refer to the
any person who has some responsibilities for place, about the content needed throughout
‘information’ or ‘documents’ as necessary.
HRBs in occupation or are actively managing the lifecycle of a HRB. It also reinforces the
HRBs in occupation. This will include building • Further terms and definitions are principles of the golden thread.
owners, building managers, facilities specified in the glossary in Annex A.
managers, resident management companies There is great variability in the scale and The new building safety regulatory
and right to manage companies. complexity of building work in scope of this regime is at an early stage and as such
guidance. Therefore, it is not possible to understanding and experience will evolve
Many of the building safety reforms are for
provide specific technical guidance for every on the golden thread of information. This
all building work, not just for work on HRBs.
scenario or project. guidance or any supporting documents
There must be greater responsibility and
will be revised if necessary. This may
progressive assurance through the whole It is also not possible to provide specific
include development of case studies
supply chain and across the whole lifecycle of technical guidance for every individual
and practical examples. As part of
a built asset. Whilst golden thread legislation occupied building. Occupied HRBs are all
this process, the drafting group would
is only applicable to HRBs, many of the different as each building will have been
welcome any comments and feedback on
approaches within this guidance may be of built and maintained in different ways.
the guidance and sharing of knowledge
benefit and can be applied to work carried The accountable persons responsible for
and case studies
out by the rest of the industry. the occupied HRB include investment
and development companies, housing Please email:
providers who develop and then manage the construction.enquiries@businessandtrade.
gov.uk 8