(6) Where the regulator receives a partial completion certificate application which is not valid
the regulator must notify the applicant to that effect giving reasons (and where the applicant is not
the client, also give a copy of the notification to the client).
(7) A partial completion certificate application is valid if it complies with paragraphs (2) to (4).
(8) Before determining a partial completion certificate application the regulator must—
(a) comply with regulation 42(1) to (3) (completion certificates applications: consultation), as
modified by paragraph (9);
(b) comply with regulation 43(1) (completion certificates applications: inspection) as
modified by paragraph (9).
(9) Regulations 42 (completion certificates applications: consultation) and 44 (completion
certificates applications: inspection) and Schedule 1 have effect with the following
modifications—
(a) any reference to as built is to be treated as a reference to as completed at the date on
which the application is made;
(b) any reference to HRB work is to be treated as a reference to the part of the HRB work to
which the application relates;
(c) any reference to work to existing HRB is to be treated as a reference to the part of work to
existing HRB to which the application relates;
(d) any reference to a higher-risk building is to be treated as a reference to the building to
which HRB work, the stage to HRB work or work to existing HRB is being carried out.
(10) The regulator must approve the partial completion certificate application and issue a partial
completion certificate, if it is satisfied, after taking all reasonable steps, that—
(a) the part of the HRB work or work to existing HRB which the application relates complies
with all applicable requirements of the building regulations and the part of the building to
be occupied before completion of the HRB work or work to existing HRB complies with
all applicable requirements of the building regulations;
(b) the documents and information listed in paragraphs (2) and (3) and submitted as part of
the application are complete and accurate;
(c) the information, as at the date on which the application is made, to be provided to the
relevant person in accordance with regulation 38 (handover of information on completion
etc) has been given.
(11) If the regulator is not satisfied in accordance with paragraph (10) it must reject the partial
completion certificate application.
(12) The regulator must notify the applicant of the outcome of the application (and where the
applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the notification to the client) within the period
referred to in paragraph (5).
(13) A notice that the application has been rejected must give the reasons for rejection.
(14) If the application is approved the regulator must issue a partial completion certificate for
the building at the same time as giving the notice of its decision under paragraph (12).
(15) If requested by the applicant or the relevant person, the regulator must provide a paper copy
of the partial completion certificate.
(16) A certificate issued under this regulation is evidence (but not conclusive evidence) that all
applicable requirements have been complied with in relation to the part of the HRB work or work
to existing HRB to which the certificate relates.
(17) The certificate must include a statement describing its evidentiary effect, in terms
substantially the same as paragraph (16).
(18) When the partial completion certificate application is approved the client must ensure the
relevant person (as defined in regulation 38 (handover of information on completion etc) is sent—
(a) a copy of the partial completion certificate application and each of the other documents
which accompanied the application, and
45