change to the client, principal contractor or principal designer, insolvency etc of a client and
variation of a requirement imposed on a building control approval.
Part 4 of these Regulations sets out provisions in relation the golden thread information,
mandatory occurrence reporting and the handover of information on completion of the work.
Part 5 of these Regulations sets out the procedures for applying for a completion certificate in
relation to higher-risk buildings. Applications must be submitted to the regulator giving the
information required and accompanied by the plans and documents required. Provision is also
made for partial completion certificates where it is proposed a building (or part of a building) is
occupied before all of the higher-risk building work is completed.
Part 6 of these Regulations sets out provision relating to inspections, testing and sampling,
regularisation of unauthorised work, review by the regulator of its decisions, and appeals in
relation to reviewed decisions and the procedure under section 30A of the Building Act 1984
(which provides that a request can be made to the Secretary of State for determination of an
application where the regulator has not made a decision within the time limit prescribed).
Part 7 of these Regulations defines exempt work, gives the regulator the power by direction to
require an application to be sent to it via a specified method, and also sets out those provisions in
relation to which a stop notice under section 35C of that Act may be given. Part 7 also includes
consequential amendments to the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 (S.I. 2005/1541);
the Community Infrastructure Levy Regulations 2010 (S.I. 2010/948); and the Building Safety
(Responsible Actors Scheme and Prohibitions) Regulations 2023 (S.I. 2023/753). Schedule 3 to
these Regulations sets out transitional, supplementary and saving provisions in relation to projects
for higher-risk building work for which plans were deposited or initial notices given before 1st
October 2023.
A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the costs to business is
published with an Explanatory Memorandum alongside the instrument on www.legislation.gov.uk.
© Crown copyright 2023
Printed and published in the UK by The Stationery Office Limited under the authority and superintendence of Jeff James,
Controller of His Majesty’s Stationery Office and King’s Printer of Acts of Parliament.
http://www.legislation.gov.uk/id/uksi/2023/909
76