(b) subject to paragraphs (9) and (10)—
(i) the description of the proposed work under regulation 12(1)(e) (building control
approval applications for work to existing HRB);
(ii) the plans of the work that accompanied the application, and
(iii) each of the other documents that accompanied the application and, in accordance
with regulation 12(5) (building control approval applications for work to existing
HRB), the regulator required to be provided,
are approved.
(9) Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that a plan or
document must be revised, the unrevised plan or document is not approved by paragraph (8)(b).
(10) Where—
(a) building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that any plan or
document must be revised, and
(b) the plan or document is revised in accordance with the requirement,
paragraph (8)(b) applies in relation to the revised plan or document.
(11) Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement of a type
described in paragraph (3)(a), the client must ensure that work does not start before the plan or
document is provided.
(12) Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement of a type
described in paragraph (3)(b)—
(a) the requirement must set out the points specified in relation to the work and the plans or
documents which must be approved for each point;
(b) the client must ensure work does not proceed beyond the point specified in a requirement
until the approval by the regulator in relation to that plan or document has been received.
(13) If requested by the client, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the approval referred
to in paragraph (12)(b).
(14) Where the regulator decides not to approve a plan or document under paragraph (12) if
requested the regulator must give the reasons for the decision.
Regulator’s power to require notifications etc for work to existing HRB
16.—(1) The regulator may, by notice in writing, require a client—
(a) to notify the regulator, within a specified period, when a specified point of the work to
existing HRB has been reached;
(b) not to cover up specified work for a specified period.
(2) In this regulation “specified” means specified by the regulator in the notice referred to in
paragraph (1).
Notice before starting on site and further notice when work is “commenced”
17.—(1) This regulation applies where building control approval for work to existing HRB is
granted under regulation 15 (building control approval applications for work to existing HRB:
decisions).
(2) At least five working days before the day on which the work to existing HRB starts, the
client must give a notice to the regulator setting out their intention to start the work and the date
that work is to start.
(3) Not more than five working days after the day on which the work to existing HRB is to be
regarded as commenced the client must give a notice to that effect to the regulator.
18