Building control approval applications for work to existing HRB: validity and time limit
13.—(1) Where the regulator receives a building control approval application for work to
existing HRB which is valid the regulator must—
(a) notify the applicant to that effect, and
(b) determine it within 8 weeks beginning with the date the application is received by the
regulator or within such longer period as at any time the regulator and the applicant agree
in writing.
(2) Where the regulator receives a building control approval application for work to existing
HRB which is not valid the regulator must notify the applicant to that effect giving reasons (and
where the applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the notification to the client).
(3) A building control approval application for work to existing HRB is valid if it complies with
regulation 12 (building control approval applications for work to existing HRB).
Building control approval applications for work to existing HRB: consultation
14.—(1) Before determining a building control approval application for work to existing HRB
the regulator must consult—
(a) where the work is—
(i) category A work, or
(ii) category B work and Part B of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes
requirements in relation to the work,
the enforcing authority (within the meaning of article 25 of the Regulatory Reform (Fire
Safety) Order 2005(a)) for the building, and
(b) where paragraph H4 of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations imposes requirements in
relation to the work, the sewerage undertaker for the building.
(2) Where the regulator is required to consult a person under this regulation the regulator—
(a) must give the person sufficient plans to show whether the work to existing HRB would, if
carried out in accordance with those plans, comply with—
(i) in the case of the enforcing authority, the applicable requirements of Part B (fire
safety) of Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations, and
(ii) in the case of the sewerage undertaker, the requirements of paragraph H4 of
Schedule 1 to the 2010 Regulations;
(b) must not determine the application until the expiry of a period of 15 working days
beginning with the date the consultation starts or such longer period as the regulator and
the person consulted agree in writing.
(3) In relation to the consultation under paragraph (1)(a) the plans given must include—
(a) for category A work, the fire and emergency file;
(b) for category B work, the fire safety compliance information.
(4) If all persons consulted express their views before the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (2)(b) then the prohibition against determining the application ceases to apply on the
day after the date on which their views are received by the regulator.
(5) The regulator is not required to consult under this regulation where it is satisfied following
consideration of the application there are sufficient grounds to reject the application.
(6) In this regulation “category A work” and “category B work” have the meanings given in
regulation 12 (building control approval applications for work to existing HRB).
(a) S.I. 2005/1541 to which there are amendments not relevant to this provision.
16