regulation 18(2)(b) (change control) is included in the facility referred to in paragraph (1) as soon
as practicable after the revised version is produced and where the proposed change is not carried
out the facility referred to in paragraph (1) must be updated with a note to that effect.
(9) Where a notice is given under regulation 29 (new principal contractor or principal designer
etc: notification), the client must ensure the facility referred to in paragraph (1) is updated to
include a copy of the notice and any statement which accompanied that notice as soon as
practicable after the notice is given.
(10) Where a written report is provided to the regulator under regulation 33 (mandatory
occurrence reporting: reporting to the regulator), the client must ensure the facility referred to in
paragraph (1) is updated to include a copy of that report as soon as practicable after the report is
provided.
(11) Where the client proposes to make a completion certificate application or a partial
completion certificate application they must ensure the facility referred to in paragraph (1) is
updated to include a copy of the proposed application and a copy of each document which it is
proposed will accompany the application.
(12) The requirements of this regulation do not apply to work to existing HRB which consists
only of—
(a) scheme work, or
(b) exempt work.
(13) In this regulation—
“fire statement” means any statement in relation to the higher-risk building or proposed
higher-risk building submitted in accordance with article 9A of the Town and Country
Planning (Development Management Procedure) (England) Order 2015(a);
“golden thread information” means the information required by this regulation to be included
in the facility referred to in paragraph (1), including previous versions of any document which
has been updated.
Mandatory occurrence reporting system
32.—(1) The principal dutyholders(b) must—
(a) before the construction phase begins, establish a system which enables as far as is
reasonably practicable the prompt reporting of every safety occurrence to the principal
dutyholders by reporting persons, and
(b) maintain the system throughout the construction phase.
(2) The principal dutyholders must take reasonable steps to ensure each reporting person is
provided with adequate instruction and information on the system established by virtue of
paragraph (1) and the incidents or situations that should be reported by the reporting person
through the system—
(a) in the case of a designer or contractor, before beginning any work;
(b) in the case of any other person, as soon as reasonably practicable after first entering the
site of the work.
(3) The principal contractor (or sole contractor) must ensure an appropriate frequency of
inspections of the work for safety occurrences throughout the construction phase.
(4) The principal designer (or sole or lead designer) must ensure an appropriate frequency of
inspections of HRB design work for safety occurrences throughout the construction phase.
(5) The requirements of this regulation do not apply to work to existing HRB which consists
only of—
(a) exempt work, or
(a) S.I. 2015/595. Article 9A was inserted by S.I. 2021/746.
(b) See definition in regulation 35 (mandatory occurrence reporting: definitions).
34