(6) A notice that the building control approval sought in the application has been granted subject
to a requirement must specify the requirement imposed.
(7) If requested by the applicant, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the notice of
building control approval.
(8) Where a building control approval application for HRB work or a building control approval
application for a stage of HRB work is successful the effect is that from the date of the notice
under paragraph (4)—
(a) building control approval for the HRB work or, as the case may be, building control
approval for the stage of HRB work is granted;
(b) subject to paragraphs (9) and (10)—
(i) the description of the proposed HRB work or, as the case may be, the description of
the proposed stage of HRB work,
(ii) the plans of the HRB work or, as the case may be, the plans of the stage of HRB
work that accompanied the application, and
(iii) each of the other documents that accompanied the application,
are approved.
(9) Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that a plan or
document must be revised, the unrevised plan or document is not approved by paragraph (8)(b).
(10) Where—
(a) building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement that any plan or
document must be revised, and
(b) the plan or document is subsequently revised in accordance with the requirement,
then that revised plan or document is approved from the date specified in the approval given by
the regulator for the revision.
(11) Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement of a type
described in paragraph (3)(a), the client must ensure that work does not start before the plan or
document is provided.
(12) Where building control approval has been granted subject to a requirement of a type
described in paragraph (3)(b)—
(a) the requirement must set out the points specified in relation to the work and the plans or
documents which must be approved for each point;
(b) the client must ensure work to which the requirement relates does not proceed beyond the
point specified in the requirement until the approval by the regulator in relation to that
plan or document has been received.
(13) If requested by the client, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the approval referred
to in paragraph (12)(b).
(14) Where the regulator decides not to approve a plan or document under paragraph (12) if
requested the regulator must give the reasons for the decision.
Regulator’s power to require notifications etc for HRB work or stage of HRB work
8.—(1) The regulator may, by notice in writing, require a client—
(a) to notify the regulator, within a specified period, when a specified point of the HRB work
or a specified point of the stage of HRB work has been reached;
(b) not to cover up specified work for a specified period.
(2) In this regulation “specified” means specified by the regulator in the notice referred to in
paragraph (1).
11