(3) In relation to the consultation under paragraph (1)(a) the plans given must include the fire
and emergency file or, where the work to which the application relates is category B work, the fire
safety compliance information.
(4) If all persons consulted express their views before the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (2)(b) then the prohibition against determining the application ceases to apply on the
day after the date on which their views are received by the regulator.
(5) The regulator is not required to consult under this regulation where it is satisfied following
consideration of the application there are sufficient grounds to reject the application.
(6) In this regulation, “category A work” and “category B work” have the meanings given in
regulation 12 (building control approval applications for work to existing HRB).
Completion certificate applications: inspection
43. Before determining a completion certificate application the regulator must arrange an
inspection of the completed HRB work, stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB for the
purpose of assessing whether the work complies with all applicable requirements of the building
regulations.
Completion certificate applications: decisions
44.—(1) The regulator must approve a completion certificate application and issue a completion
certificate, if it is satisfied, after taking all reasonable steps, that—
(a) HRB work, stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB is completed and complies with
all applicable requirements of the building regulations;
(b) the documents and information listed in regulation 40(2)(a) to (d) (completion certificate
applications) and submitted as part of the completion certificate application are complete
and accurate;
(c) the information required to be provided to the relevant person in accordance with
regulation 38 (handover of information on completion etc) is complete and has been
provided.
(2) If the regulator is not satisfied in accordance with paragraph (1) it must reject the completion
certificate application.
(3) The regulator must notify the applicant of the outcome of the application (and where the
applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the notification to the client) within the period
referred to in regulation 41 (completion certificate applications: validity and time limit).
(4) A notice that the application has been rejected must give the reasons for rejection.
(5) If the application is approved the regulator must issue a completion certificate for the higher-
risk building at the same time as giving the notice of its decision under paragraph (3).
(6) If requested by the applicant or the relevant person, the regulator must provide a paper copy
of the completion certificate.
(7) A certificate issued under this regulation is evidence (but not conclusive evidence) that all
applicable requirements of the building regulations have been complied with in relation to the
HRB work, the stage of HRB work or, as the case may be, the work to existing HRB.
(8) The certificate must include a statement describing its evidentiary effect, in terms
substantially the same as paragraph (7).
(9) When the completion certificate application is approved the client must ensure the relevant
person (as defined in regulation 38 (handover of information on completion etc)) is sent—
(a) a copy of the completion certificate application and each of the other documents which
accompanied the application, and
(b) a copy of the completion certificate.
42