Notice before starting on site and further notice when work is “commenced”
9.—(1) This regulation applies where building control approval for HRB work or building
control approval for a stage of HRB work is granted under regulation 7 (building control approval
applications for HRB work or stage of HRB work: decisions).
(2) At least five working days before the day on which the HRB work or the stage of HRB work
starts, the client must give a notice to the regulator setting out their intention to start the work and
the date that work is to start.
(3) Not more than five working days after the day on which the HRB work is to be regarded as
commenced the client must give a notice to that effect to the regulator.
(4) If the regulator is not satisfied the work is to be regarded as commenced it must give the
client a notice to that effect (“rejection notice”) within four weeks of the date the notice under
paragraph (3) is given, and the rejection notice must give the reasons for rejection.
(5) Where a notice is given under paragraph (3) and the period referred to in paragraph (4)
expires without a rejection notice being given, then the work is to be regarded as commenced.
(6) If the client accepts the rejection notice they may not give a further notice under paragraph
(3) unless, having regard to the reasons given by the regulator, they are satisfied the work is to be
regarded as commenced.
(7) The client may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision of the regulator to reject
the notice provided the appeal is made within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the
day on which the regulator gives the rejection notice.
(8) The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (7) only if it is satisfied that the
decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the following grounds—
(a) that the decision was based on an error of fact;
(b) that the decision was wrong in law;
(c) that the decision was unreasonable;
(d) that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the 1984 Act or
regulations made under that Act.
(9) Where a notice under paragraph (2) or (3) is given by someone on behalf of the client, the
notice must include a statement signed by the client confirming they agree to the notice being
given and that the information contained in it is correct.
(10) The regulator may take such steps, including—
(a) requiring information;
(b) laying open of work for inspection,
as it thinks appropriate to check whether the work is to be regarded as commenced.
(11) For the purposes of paragraphs (3) to (10) the provisions of regulation 46A (lapse of
building control approval: commencement of work) of the 2010 Regulations apply to determine
whether work is to be regarded as commenced.
CHAPTER 2
Existing HRBs
Notification of emergency repairs to existing HRB
10.—(1) Where work to existing HRB consists only of emergency repairs and it is not
practicable to comply with regulation 11(1) (building control approval for work to existing HRB)
before starting the work, the client must—
(a) give a notice to that effect to the regulator, describing the work and the reasons for the
urgency as soon as reasonably practicable after the work has started,
(b) send a copy of that notice to the responsible person as soon as reasonably practicable after
the work has started, and
12