Section 30A applications: appointed persons
54.—(1) The Secretary of State may appoint a person to determine a section 30A application
instead of the Secretary of State.
(2) At any time before a person appointed under this regulation has determined the application
the Secretary of State may—
(a) revoke that person’s appointment;
(b) appoint another person to determine the application instead.
(3) Where a new appointment is made the consideration of the application in question must be
started afresh.
(4) Nothing in paragraph (3) requires any person to be given an opportunity to make fresh
representations or modify or withdraw representations previously made.
(5) A person appointed under this regulation has the same powers and duties in relation to
determination of a section 30A application as the Secretary of State and, in particular, regulation
53 (section 30A applications: determinations) applies as if references to the Secretary of State in
that regulation were references to that person.
(6) Where an application is determined by a person appointed under this regulation their
decision is to be treated as the decision of the Secretary of State.
Deemed rejection of the original application
55. Where, in relation to an application that is prescribed in regulation 50 (section 30A
prescribed applications)—
(a) the period under regulation 51 (section 30A applications: procedures) for a person to
make a section 30A application has expired without the person making a section 30A
application in accordance with that regulation, and
(b) the regulator did not determine the original application(a) before the expiry of that period,
then the original application is treated as rejected by the regulator.
Section 30A applications: appeals
56.—(1) An appeal to the First-tier Tribunal under section 30A(8) of the 1984 Act must be made
within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the day on which the Secretary of State gives
the decision to the applicant under regulation 53(6) (section 30A applications: determinations).
(2) The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (1) only to if it is satisfied that
the decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the following grounds—
(a) that the decision was based on an error of fact;
(b) that the decision was wrong in law;
(c) that the decision was unreasonable;
(d) that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the 1984 Act or
regulations made under that Act.
(3) If the First-tier Tribunal allows an appeal it may quash or vary the decision.
(a) See section 30A(1) of the Building Act 1984 for the definition of “the original application”.
51