Variation of a requirement imposed on a building control approval
30. —(1) In relation to HRB work, a stage of HRB work or work to existing HRB, a client may
request, by notice in writing, that the regulator vary a requirement imposed on a building control
approval.
(2) A notice under paragraph (1) must be made in writing, signed by the client, and must
include—
(a) the name, address, telephone number and (if available) email address of the client,
(b) a statement that the notice is given under this regulation,
(c) a description of the proposed variation,
(d) an explanation of the reasons why the variation is proposed,
(e) a list of the name and occupation of each person, if any, whose advice was sought in
relation to the proposed variation and a summary of any advice provided.
(3) Where the notice under paragraph (1) is given by someone on behalf of the client, it must
include a statement signed by the client confirming they agree to the notice being given and that
the information contained in the application is correct.
(4) Where the regulator receives a notice under paragraph (1) the regulator must determine
whether to grant the variation within 28 days of receipt of the notice or within such longer period
as at any time the regulator and the person giving the notice agree in writing.
(5) Where the regulator has not determined whether to grant the variation before the expiry of
the period provided for in paragraph (4) then the variation is treated as refused by the regulator.
(6) Where a requirement is varied the regulator must give the client a notice setting out the
requirement as varied.
(7) If requested by the client, the regulator must provide a paper copy of the notice.
(8) Where the regulator does not agree to the variation the regulator must notify the client giving
reasons.
PART 4
Golden thread, mandatory occurrence reporting, information handover etc
Golden thread
31.—(1) The arrangements made by a client under regulation 11A (suitable arrangements to
ensure compliance with requirements etc) of the 2010 Regulations must include—
(a) where the work is HRB work or a stage of HRB work—
(i) arrangements for an electronic facility to be created and maintained by the client (or
someone on their behalf) for the purpose of holding the golden thread information;
(ii) procedures for persons involved with designing or carrying out the work to have
access to the facility for the purpose of maintaining the golden thread information in
the facility;
(b) where the work is work to existing HRB—
(i) arrangements for an electronic facility which holds the golden thread information to
be maintained by the client (or someone on their behalf) for the purpose of updating
the golden thread information in relation to the work;
(ii) procedures for persons involved with designing or carrying out the work to have
access to the facility for the purpose of maintaining the golden thread information in
the facility.
(2) The client must ensure the golden thread information—
(a) is kept in an electronic format,
32