(i) identifies the decision to be reviewed (including the date of the decision and any
reference number included on the decision), and
(ii) sets out the reasons the person considers the decision should be reviewed;
(e) any information that is available to the person giving the notice, that may have been
relevant to the regulator’s original decision but was not available at the time the original
decision was made.
(5) The regulator must notify the person who required a review of the outcome of the review
within 13 weeks beginning with the day after the day on which the person gives a notice under
section 25(2) of the 2022 Act.
(6) A notice that the review has upheld the decision must give the reasons for that decision.
(7) If the review varies the decision the regulator must issue a new decision.
(8) If requested by the person requiring the review, the regulator must provide a paper copy of
the decision of the review.
Appeal in relation to reviewed decisions
49.—(1) A person may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision of the regulator of a
kind referred to in regulation 48(1) (review of regulator’s decisions) provided that the appeal is
made within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the day on which the regulator notifies
the person of its decision under regulation 48(5)(a).
(2) The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (1) only if it is satisfied that the
decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the following grounds—
(a) that the decision was based on an error of fact;
(b) that the decision was wrong in law;
(c) that the decision was unreasonable;
(d) that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the 1984 Act or
regulations made under that Act.
(3) If the First-tier Tribunal allows an appeal it may quash or vary the decision.
Section 30A prescribed applications
50.—(1) The following applications are prescribed(b) for the purposes of section 30A(1) of the
1984 Act, and are accordingly applications that may be determined by the Secretary of State in the
circumstances described in that section—
(a) a building control approval application for HRB work;
(b) a building control approval application for a stage of HRB work;
(c) a building control approval application for work to existing HRB;
(d) a change control application;
(e) a completion certificate application;
(f) a partial completion certificate application.
(2) An application may not be made to the Secretary of State under section 30A of the 1984 Act
where, in relation to the original application(c), the regulator has notified the person who made the
original application that the original application is not valid.
(a) Section 26 of the Building Safety Act 2022 provides a decision must be reviewed under section 25 before an appeal is
made.
(b) See section 126 of the Building Act 1984 for the meaning of “prescribed”.
(c) See section 30A(1) of the Building Act 1984 for the definition of “the original application”.
49