Section 30A applications: procedure
51.—(1) An application under section 30A of the 1984 Act (“section 30A application”) must be
made in writing to the Secretary of State by the client for the work to which the original
application relates (in this Part “the applicant”) on a form published by the Secretary of State,
together with the documents specified in paragraph (3).
(2) A section 30A application must be made no later than 6 weeks after the day the relevant
period(a) in relation to the application or request ends.
(3) The documents mentioned in paragraph (1) are—
(a) a copy of the original application given to the regulator (including all documentation that
accompanied the application);
(b) all information provided to the regulator in relation to the original application by the
applicant;
(c) all correspondence between the applicant and the regulator in relation to that application;
(d) a copy of the notice sent to the regulator under paragraph (4);
(e) where the application is made by someone on behalf of the client, a statement signed by
the client confirming they agree to the application being made and that the information
contained in the application is correct.
(4) At least two working days before submitting the application under paragraph (1) the
applicant must give notice to the regulator of their intention to do so.
Section 30A applications: electronic submissions
52.—(1) Where an applicant submits a section 30A application through electronic facilities
provided by the Secretary of State for that purpose, they are taken to have consented to the use of
electronic communications for all purposes relating to the section 30A application that are capable
of being carried out electronically.
(2) The deemed consent in paragraph (1) may be revoked by the applicant giving the Secretary
of State two weeks’ notice in writing specifying that the notice is given under this regulation.
Section 30A applications: determinations
53.—(1) A section 30A application is to be determined(b) by written representations.
(2) The Secretary of State must give the regulator the opportunity to make written
representations in relation to a section 30A application.
(3) The Secretary of State may give any other person an opportunity to make written
representations in relation to a section 30A application.
(4) The Secretary of State may, by notice in writing, require the regulator to provide specified
information, or provide copies of specified documents, by the date specified in the notice (that
date must be no fewer than 14 relevant days after the date the notice is given).
(5) Before determining a section 30A application, the Secretary of State may hold such meetings
with the applicant, the regulator or any other person, and undertake such visits, testing or
inspections, as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.
(6) The Secretary of State’s decision must be given in writing to the applicant (and where the
applicant is not the client, also give a copy of the decision to the client).
(7) A copy of the Secretary of State’s decision must be sent to the regulator.
(a) See section 30A(9) of the Building Act 1984 (c. 55) for the definition of “relevant period”.
(b) Section 30A(7) provides that for the purpose of determining a section 30A application the Building Act 1984 and the
building regulations (including these Regulations) apply in relation to the Secretary of State as they apply to the regulator.
50