(4) If the regulator is not satisfied the work is to be regarded as commenced it must give the
client a notice to that effect (“rejection notice”) within four weeks of the date the notice under
paragraph (3) is given, and the rejection notice must give the reasons for rejection.
(5) Where a notice is given under paragraph (3) and the period referred to in paragraph (4)
expires without a rejection notice being given, then the work is to be regarded as commenced.
(6) If the client accepts the rejection notice they may not give a further notice under paragraph
(3) unless, having regard to the reasons given by the regulator, they are satisfied the work is to be
regarded as commenced.
(7) The client may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision of the regulator to reject
the notice provided the appeal is made within 21 relevant days beginning with the day after the
day on which the regulator gives the rejection notice.
(8) The First-tier Tribunal may allow an appeal under paragraph (7) only if it is satisfied that the
decision appealed against was wrong on one or more of the following grounds—
(a) that the decision was based on an error of fact;
(b) that the decision was wrong in law;
(c) that the decision was unreasonable;
(d) that the decision was made without following the procedures set out in the 1984 Act or
regulations made under that Act.
(9) Where a notice under paragraph (2) or (3) is given by someone on behalf of the client, the
notice must include a statement signed by the client confirming they agree to the notice being
given and that the information contained in it is correct.
(10) The regulator may take such steps, including—
(a) requiring information;
(b) laying open of work for inspection,
as it thinks appropriate to check whether the work is to be regarded as commenced.
(11) For the purposes of paragraphs (3) to (10) the provisions of regulation 46A (lapse of
building control approval: commencement of work) of the 2010 Regulations apply to determine
whether work is to be regarded as commenced.
PART 3
Changes before or during construction
Change control
18.—(1) This regulation applies where one or more of the following changes (“controlled
change”) is proposed—
(a) a change to any current plans of any work or proposed work or the carrying out of work
otherwise than in accordance with the current plans;
(b) a change to any stage of HRB work, including adding or removing a stage;
(c) a change to any strategies, policies or procedures described in any current agreed
document.
(2) Before any controlled change can be carried out, the client must ensure—
(a) a record is made of the controlled change in accordance with regulation 19 (change
control: record-keeping), and
(b) a revised version of any agreed document affected by the controlled change is produced.
(3) Where the controlled change is a notifiable change, the client must notify the regulator in
accordance with regulation 20 (change control: notification requirements).
19