saving provisions) of the Building Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England)
Regulations 2023;
(b) in a case where an initial notice has been given—
(i) Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations do not apply to that work, and
(ii) the 2010 Regulations and the Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010
continue to apply to the work, including the amendments made to those Regulations
by the Building Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England) Regulations 2023 and the
Building (Approved Inspectors etc. and Review of Decisions) (England) Regulations
2023 but subject to Part 4 (transitional, supplementary and saving provisions) of the
Building Regulations etc. (Amendment) (England) Regulations 2023 and Part 4
(transitional, supplementary and saving provisions) of the Building (Approved
Inspectors etc. and Review of Decisions) (England) Regulations 2023.
(4) In addition to the continuing application of the provisions referred to in sub-paragraph (3),
not more than five working days after the day on which the work is to be regarded as sufficiently
progressed the person carrying out the work must give a notice to that effect to the local authority
and where sub-paragraph (1)(a) applies in relation to the work, give a copy of the notice to the
approved inspector.
(5) Sub-paragraphs (1) to (4) cease to apply in relation to the work where before 6th April
2024—
(a) the approval for the work lapses by virtue of section 32 of the 1984 Act (as that provision
had effect immediately before 1st October 2023), or
(b) the initial notice for the work, or the part of that notice which relates to the higher-risk
building, is cancelled under section 52(5) of the 1984 Act (as that provision had effect
immediately before 1st October 2023),
and paragraph 3 applies instead to the work.
(6) For the purposes of this paragraph work is to be regarded as sufficiently progressed—
(a) where the building work consists of the construction of a higher-risk building, when the
pouring of concrete for—
(i) the permanent placement of the trench, pad or raft foundations, or
(ii) the permanent placement of piling,
for that building has started;
(b) where the building work consists of work to an existing building, when that work has
started;
(c) where the building work consists of a material change of use of a building, when work to
effect that change of use has started.
(7) Where the work consists of work in relation to more than one higher-risk building then sub-
paragraph (4) applies to each building separately.
From October 2023: cases where full plans are rejected
2.—(1) This paragraph applies where, in relation to work to a particular building, full plans were
deposited with a local authority before 1st October 2023 and in accordance with any provision of
Part 1 of the 1984 Act or a local enactment the local authority has rejected those plans on or after
that date (“the rejection date”).
(2) Where this paragraph applies then with effect from the rejection date the regulator, and not
the local authority for the area, is the building control authority in relation to the higher-risk
building and accordingly—
(a) the duties and functions of the regulator under section 91 of the 1984 Act apply in
relation to the higher-risk building or any proposed higher-risk building;
(b) Parts 2 to 6 of these Regulations apply to any HRB work or work to existing HRB from
the rejection date with the modifications provided in this paragraph except that regulation
63