(a) to a domestic client; or
(b) to work to existing HRB which consists only of—
(i) scheme work;
(ii) exempt work, or
(iii) work to which regulation 10 (notification of emergency repairs to existing HRB)
applies.
Insolvency etc of the client: notifications
28.—(1) Where the client becomes aware that any of the circumstances referred to in paragraph
(2) apply in relation to them, the client must, not more than 14 days after that date, give a notice to
the regulator which—
(a) states that they are the client in relation to a project;
(b) states the name and address of the client, and where the person is a company, also the
company registration number;
(c) gives details which are sufficient to identify every project of the client which relates to a
higher-risk building;
(d) provides so much of the information referred to in the table in rule 1.6 of the Insolvency
(England and Wales) Rules 2016 as is known to them (a).
(2) The circumstances mentioned in paragraph (1) are—
(a) a moratorium under Part A1 of the Insolvency Act 1986(b) has commenced;
(b) a voluntary arrangement for the purposes of Part 1 of the Insolvency Act 1986 has been
proposed under that Part of the Act;
(c) a voluntary arrangement for the purposes of Part 8 of the Insolvency Act 1986 has been
proposed and has taken effect under that Part of the Act.
(3) Subject to paragraph (5), where a person (“P”) described in paragraph (4) is appointed in
relation to the client then not more than 14 days after the date P is appointed P must give a notice
to the regulator which—
(a) states the name and address of the client in relation to which the appointment relates and
gives details which are sufficient to identify every project of the client which relates to a
higher-risk building;
(b) identifies the nature of the appointment held by P in relation to the client;
(c) states the name, address, telephone number and email address (if any) of P;
(d) provides so much of the information referred to in the table in rule 1.6 of the Insolvency
(England and Wales) Rules 2016 as is known to them.
(4) The persons referred to in paragraph (3) are—
(a) an administrator;
(b) an administrative receiver;
(c) a receiver appointed by the courts or by a mortgagee;
(d) a liquidator;
(e) a trustee in bankruptcy.
(5) Where under section 178 or 315 of the Insolvency Act 1986 any property in relation to a
project is disclaimed, the person disclaiming the property must, within the period of 28 days
beginning with the date the disclaimer took effect, give the regulator a copy of the notice of
disclaimer under rule 19.2 of the Insolvency (England and Wales) Rules 2016.
(a) S.I. 2016/1024.
(b) 1986 c. 45. Part A1 was inserted by section 1(1) of the Corporate Insolvency and Governance At 2020 (c. 12).
29