F1(1) O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Equivalent area of ventilators
1.14 The size of background ventilators (including trickle ventilators) is given in this approved document
as an equivalent area in mm2, not as a free area. BS EN 13141-1 includes a method of measuring the
equivalent area of background ventilator openings.
1.15 Background ventilators should have the equivalent area marked where it will be easy to see from
inside the building when installed, to aid verification by building control bodies.
Installation of ventilation systems
1.16 Ventilation systems should be installed to meet both of the following conditions.
a. Comply with the guidance in paragraphs 1.17 to 1.20.
b. Not compromise the performance of the system in use.
1.17 Rigid ducts should be used wherever possible. Where necessary, flexible ducts may be used for final
connections, but their lengths should be kept to a minimum. All flexible ductwork should meet the
standards of BSRIA’s BG 43/2013.
1.18 Ductwork installations should be designed and installed to minimise the overall pressure losses
within the system by taking all of the following steps.
a. Minimising the overall length of duct.
b. Minimising the number of bends required.
c. Installing appropriately sized ducts for the air flow rate.
1.19 Duct connections should be both mechanically secured and adequately sealed to prevent leaks.
Rigid connectors and jubilee clips should be used for flexible ducting to ensure a good seal.
1.20 Mechanical ventilation systems must be commissioned in accordance with an approved procedure.
See Section 4 of this approved document.
Indoor air quality monitoring
1.21 In new buildings, the following types of occupiable room, unless they are rooms of the size
described in paragraph 1.22, should have a means of monitoring the indoor air quality. This may be
achieved using CO monitors or other means of measuring indoor air quality.
2
a. Occupiable rooms in offices.
b. Occupiable rooms where singing, loud speech or aerobic exercise or other aerosol generating
activities are likely to take place. These may include rooms, for example, in gymnasiums, other
indoor sports venues, dance studios, theatres, concert halls, public houses, nightclubs, places of
assembly, as well as in other types of building.
c. Occupiable rooms where members of the public are likely to gather. These may include rooms,
for example, in public buildings, hotels, gymnasiums, indoor sports venues, dance studios,
theatres, concert halls, public houses, nightclubs, places of assembly, as well as in other types
of building.
d. Occupiable rooms which are maintained at both low temperatures and low levels of humidity.
These may include rooms used for chilled food processing and occupied cold stores.
8
Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N