A O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Sanitary accommodation A space containing one Ventilation opening Any means of purpose-
or more flush toilets (WCs) or urinals. Sanitary provided ventilation (whether permanent or
accommodation containing one or more cubicles closable) that opens directly to external air, such
counts as one space if there is free circulation of as the openable parts of a window, a louvre or a
air throughout the space. background ventilator. It also includes any door
that opens directly to external air.
Shared communal rooms Rooms in buildings
containing dwellings, which provide facilities Whole building ventilation (general ventilation)
for the residents, for example a laundry room, Nominally continuous ventilation of rooms or
occupied lobby or gym. This does not include spaces at a relatively low rate to dilute and remove
areas used solely or principally for circulation in pollutants and water vapour not removed by
buildings containing dwellings, including corridors extract ventilation, purge ventilation or infiltration,
or lift lobbies. as well as to supply outdoor air into the building.
Surface water activity A measure of the availability
of water to micro-organisms. Surface water
activity is determined from the ratio of the
vapour pressure of the water in the substrate to
the vapour pressure of pure water at the same
temperature and pressure. This ratio, in steady-
state conditions, is numerically equal to the
equilibrium relative humidity of the air, except that
the latter is commonly expressed as a percentage.
Thermal envelope The combination of thermal
elements of a building which enclose a particular
conditioned indoor space or groups of indoor
spaces.
Utility room A room containing a sink or other
feature or equipment that may reasonably be
expected to produce significant quantities of water
vapour.
Ventilation The supply and removal of air (by
natural and/or mechanical means) to and from a
space or spaces in a building. It normally comprises
a combination of purpose-provided ventilation and
infiltration.
26
Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N