F1(1) O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Section 3: Work on existing buildings
General
3.1 When building work in an existing building includes work on ventilation, for example:
a. building an extension
b. adding a wet room
c. replacing part of the ventilation system
the work should meet the relevant standards in this approved document.
3.2 When other building work is carried out that will affect the ventilation of the existing building,
for example:
a. replacing windows or doors
b. doing energy efficiency work
the ventilation of the building should either:
a. meet the standards in the relevant approved document
b. not be less satisfactory than before the work was carried out.
NOTE: Ventilation through infiltration should be considered to be part of the ventilation provision
of a building. Reducing infiltration might reduce the indoor air quality of the building below the
standards given in Appendix B.
3.3 When a building undergoes a material change of use, Part F of Schedule 1 to the Building
Regulations applies to the building or part of the building that has changed use. Guidance in
Section 1 should be followed.
NOTE: Ventilation equipment is considered to be a ‘controlled service or fitting’ and providing or
extending this equipment in or in connection with a building is considered to be building work.
NOTE: Some building work does not need to be notified to the local authority. Details of such
work are set out in the Manual to the Building Regulations.
3.4 If work is carried out which increases the energy efficiency of a building, airtightness may be
increased. In these circumstances, any useful ventilation which was lost should be replaced in order
to maintain a healthy indoor environment. When carrying out work which is likely to increase the
airtightness of the building, it should be demonstrated to the building control body that the work
meets the requirements of Part F1(1), where it is an applicable requirement. Refer to paragraphs 3.1
and 3.2 for the relevant standards that should be met. For domestic-type installation of common
energy efficiency measures in existing buildings, Approved Document F, Volume 1: Dwellings
contains guidance on meeting the requirements of Part F of the Building Regulations.
18
Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N