A O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Appendix A: Key terms
Except for the items marked * (which are from the Continuous operation Uninterrupted running of a
Building Regulations 2010), these definitions apply mechanical ventilation device, such as mechanical
only to Approved Document F, Volume 2: Buildings extract ventilation or mechanical supply and
other than dwellings. extract ventilation. The air flow rate provided by
mechanical ventilation need not be constant but
Air permeability The measure of airtightness of
may be varied, under either manual or automatic
the building fabric. It is defined as the air leakage
control, in response to the demand for removal of
rate per hour per m2 of envelope area at the test
pollutants or water vapour.
reference pressure differential of 50Pa.
Dwelling A self-contained unit designed to
Airtightness The resistance of the building
accommodate a single household.
envelope to infiltration when ventilators are
closed. The greater the airtightness at a given Equivalent area A measure of the aerodynamic
pressure difference across the envelope, the lower performance of a ventilator. It is the area of a
the infiltration. sharp-edged circular orifice through which air
would pass at the same volume flow rate, under an
Automatic controls A system whereby a
identical applied pressure difference, as through
ventilation device is adjusted by a mechanical or
the opening under consideration.
electronic controller that responds to a relevant
stimulus. That stimulus usually relates to the Expert advice Advice from a suitably qualified
humidity of the air in a room, pollutant levels, competent person. Examples from the ventilation
occupancy of the space or pressure difference industry of a person competent to give expert
across the device. advice include a chartered or professional
engineer, a building services specialist, a specialist
Background ventilator A small ventilation opening
ventilation manufacturer or members of
designed to provide controllable whole building
professional trade bodies.
ventilation.
Extract ventilation The removal of air directly
Bathroom A room that contains a bath or
from an internal space or spaces to the outside.
shower and which can also include sanitary
Extract ventilation may be by natural means or
accommodation.
by mechanical means (e.g. by an extract fan or a
Building control body A local authority or an central system).
approved inspector.
Free area The geometric open area of a ventilator.
Common space A space where large numbers of
Habitable room A room used for dwelling
people are expected to gather (e.g. a shopping mall
purposes but which is not solely a kitchen, utility
or foyer of a cinema or theatre) or which is used
room, bathroom, cellar or sanitary accommodation.
mainly for circulation in buildings which do not
contain dwellings (e.g. a corridor or lift lobby in an Infiltration The uncontrolled exchange of air
office building). This does not include areas used between the inside and outside of a building,
solely or principally for circulation in buildings through gaps and cracks.
containing dwellings, including corridors or lift
Intermittent operation When a mechanical
lobbies in blocks of flats.
ventilator does not run all the time, usually running
only when there is a particular need to remove
pollutants or water vapour (e.g. during cooking
or bathing). Intermittent operation may be under
either manual control or automatic control.
24
Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N