F1(1) O N L I N E V E R S I O N
1.28 Food and drink preparation areas should have an intermittent air extract rate of either of the
following.
a. If the area is only for using a microwave and preparing drinks: 15 litres per second.
b. If the area is for using a domestic-type hob or cooker, either of the following.
i. If the extract ventilator is adjacent to the hob/cooker: 30 litres per second.
ii. If the extract ventilator is remote from the hob/cooker: 60 litres per second.
NOTE: This guidance does not apply to commercial kitchens, which should follow the specific
guidance in Table 1.1.
1.29 Specialist buildings and spaces should follow the guidance in Table 1.1.
1.30 For naturally ventilated offices that do not use mechanical supply and extract ventilation, both of
the following should apply.
a. The locations of extract ventilators should be both of the following.
i. As high as practicable.
ii. A maximum of 400mm below the ceiling.
b. Where used, passive stack ventilation terminals should be located in the ceiling.
1.31 For a room with no openable window, the extract ventilation should operate both:
a. while the room is occupied
b. for a minimum of 15 minutes after occupants have left the room.
Whole building ventilation rates for offices
1.32 Outdoor air should be supplied for occupiable rooms in offices at whichever of the following will
provide the higher total rate.
a. 10 litres per second per person.
b. 1 litre per second per m2 floor area.
1.33 Common spaces in offices, including rooms or spaces used solely or mainly for circulation, such as
corridors and lift lobbies, should be provided with either of the following.
a. Natural ventilation by appropriately located ventilation opening(s) with a total opening area of
at least 1/50 of the floor area of the common space.
b. Mechanical ventilation installed to provide a supply of outdoor air of 0.5 litres per second per
m2 of floor area of the common space.
1.34 If there are significant levels of pollutants other than body effluents/odour, additional ventilation
may be required. The calculation method provided in CIBSE’s Guide A Environmental Design should
be followed to determine the whole building ventilation rate.
10
Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N