F1(2), R39O, NRL I4N4E V E R S I O N
Section 4: Commissioning and providing
information
Commissioning of ventilation systems
4.1 Mechanical ventilation systems must be commissioned to provide adequate ventilation. A
commissioning notice must be given to the building control body.
4.2 Commissioning should be carried out in accordance with CIBSE’s Commissioning Code M.
4.3 Ventilation ductwork commissioning should take account of guidance in BESA’s DW 144 for metal
ductwork, DW 154 for plastic ductwork and DW 143 for ductwork air leakage testing.
NOTE: When mechanical ventilation is commissioned, the use of fuel and power should also be
considered in accordance with Part L of the Building Regulations (L1(b) of Schedule 1). Installers
may provide notice of commissioning to cover Part F (F1(2) of Schedule 1) and Part L in the same
document.
Operating and maintenance instructions
4.4 Sufficient information about the ventilation system and its maintenance requirements must be
given to the building owner to allow the system to be operated effectively. This should include
both design flow rates and maintenance requirements.
4.5 For new and existing buildings other than dwellings, information should be provided in a new or
existing building log book. The log book should follow the guidance in CIBSE’s TM31. Guidance on
building log books is given in Approved Document L, Volume 2: Buildings other than dwellings.
4.6 A copy of the completed commissioning sheet should be given to the owner of the building.
4.7 The operation and maintenance information should contain specific instructions for the end user
on how and when to use the ventilation system, including information on the intended uses for the
available fan settings. Information should also be provided to suggest when, and how, the system
components should be cleaned and maintained.
4.8 The following information should be provided where relevant.
a. Manufacturer’s contact details.
b. That background ventilators allow fresh air into the building and should be left open.
c. The location of automatic controls and how to set them.
d. The location of manual controls for the on/off and high rate settings for a mechanical
ventilation system and how to use them.
e. How cleaning and maintenance of the system and its components should be carried out. This
includes the location and specification of filters and how to assess when to replace filters.
f. How to access ducts for cleaning, how to undertake cleaning of plant and ducts and the
intervals at which cleaning should be undertaken.
22
Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N