O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Live/work units
0.11 A unit that contains both living accommodation and space for commercial purposes (e.g. for a
workshop or office) should be treated as a dwelling if the commercial part can be reverted to
domestic use.
0.12 The commercial part of the building can be reverted to domestic use if all of the following apply.
a. There is direct access between the commercial space and the living accommodation.
b. The commercial space and living accommodation are within the same thermal envelope.
c. The living accommodation comprises a substantial proportion of the total area of the unit. What
constitutes a ‘substantial proportion’ should be assessed on a case-by-case basis by the building
control body.
NOTE: A large non-domestic building that contains a small flat for a manager is not treated as
a dwelling. A dwelling that contains a room used as an office or utility space is still treated as a
dwelling.
Mixed-use developments
0.13 When constructing a dwelling as part of a larger building that contains other types of
accommodation, sometimes called a mixed-use development, refer to the two volumes of
Approved Document F as follows.
a. For guidance on each individual dwelling, use Approved Document F, Volume 1: Dwellings.
b. For guidance on the non-dwelling parts of the building, such as shared communal rooms and
commercial or retail space, use this approved document: Approved Document F, Volume 2:
Buildings other than dwellings.
Selected key interactions with other parts of the Building
Regulations
0.14 The approved documents set out what, in ordinary circumstances, may be accepted as one way
to comply with the Building Regulations. Those designing or undertaking building work remain
responsible for assessing, on a case-by-case basis, whether specific circumstances require additional
or alternative measures to comply with the regulatory requirements. There are interactions
between many of the requirements of the Building Regulations. Guidance on some key interactions
is given below.
Interaction with Part B
0.15 The requirements of Part B apply if, for example, ducts pass through any of the following.
a. A fire resisting structure.
b. A fire compartment.
c. A protected stairway.
0.16 This approved document gives guidance on window openings for ventilation. In addition, Approved
Document B gives guidance on the size of escape windows. The larger of the window openings
specified in Approved Document B or Approved Document F should be applied in all cases.
3
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition
O N L I N E V E R S I O N