O N L I N E V E R S I O N F1(1)
Requirement F1(1): Means of ventilation
This section deals with the requirements of Part F1(1) of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations 2010.
Requirement
Requirement Limits on application
Means of ventilation Requirement F1 does not apply to a building or
space within a building:
F1. (1) T here shall be adequate means of ventilation
provided for people in the building. a. into which people do not normally go;
b. which is used solely for storage; or
c. which is a garage used solely in connection with
a single dwelling.
Intention
In the Secretary of State’s view, requirement F1(1) is met in a new building other than a dwelling if it
has a means of ventilation that achieves all of the following.
a. Extracts water vapour and indoor air pollutants from areas where they are produced in
significant quantities before they spread through the building, following the guidance on extract
ventilation in Section 1 for the relevant building type.
b. Supplies a minimum level of outdoor air for occupants’ health, following the guidance for whole
building ventilation in Section 1 for the relevant building type.
c. Rapidly dilutes indoor air pollutants and disperses water vapour when necessary in occupiable
rooms and sanitary accommodation, following the guidance for purge ventilation in Section 1 for
the relevant building type.
d. Monitors air quality in specific types of occupiable rooms, following the guidance in paragraphs
1.21 to 1.23.
e. Minimises the entry of external pollutants, following the guidance in Section 2.
f. Achieves all of the following, as far as is reasonably practicable.
i. Produces low levels of noise, following the guidance in paragraphs 1.5 and 1.6.
ii. Offers easy access for maintenance, following the guidance in paragraph 1.7.
iii. Provides protection from rain.
iv. Provides protection from cold draughts.
v. Does not significantly risk occupants’ health.
In the Secretary of State’s view, requirement F1(1) is met for work on an existing building other than a
dwelling by following the guidance in Section 3.
5
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition
O N L I N E V E R S I O N