O N L I N E V E R S I O N F1(1)
Access for maintenance
1.7 Reasonable access should be provided for maintaining ventilation systems, including all of the
following.
a. Providing access to replace filters, fans and coils.
b. Providing access points for cleaning ductwork.
c. Providing access for the general maintenance of plant.
The ventilation strategy in this approved document
1.8 The ventilation strategy in this approved document relies on a combination of all of the following.
a. Extract ventilation from rooms where water vapour or pollutants are likely to be released (e.g.
bathrooms, sanitary accommodation and kitchens in buildings other than dwellings), to minimise
their spread to the rest of the building. Ventilation fans may be either intermittent operation or
continuous operation.
b. Whole building ventilation to provide fresh air to the building and to dilute, disperse and
remove water vapour and pollutants not removed by extract ventilation.
c. Purge ventilation to remove high concentrations of pollutants and water vapour. Purge
ventilation is used intermittently and required only for pollutants produced by occasional
activities (e.g. fumes from painting).
d. Monitoring of indoor air quality.
1.9 Ventilation may be delivered through natural ventilation, mechanical ventilation or a combination
of both.
1.10 Naturally ventilated buildings should follow additional guidance on ventilation in CIBSE’s AM10.
Mixed mode buildings should follow additional guidance on ventilation in CIBSE’s AM13.
1.11 The ventilation systems in this approved document are examples of systems that comply with Part
F of the Building Regulations. Other ventilation systems may be acceptable if they can be shown to
meet an equal level of performance.
Performance-based guidance
1.12 Performance criteria for acceptable levels of moisture and pollutants are given in Appendix B.
Ventilation rates designed to meet the performance criteria are given in this guidance or in the
documents referred to.
1.13 Some ventilation system designs can, in certain circumstances, result in lower ventilation rates
than those stated in this guidance or in the documents referred to (e.g. systems with automatic
controls). Where lower ventilation rates are proposed, expert advice should be obtained to
demonstrate that the solution meets the performance standards in Appendix B.
7
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition
O N L I N E V E R S I O N