F1(2), R39O, NRL I4N4E V E R S I O N
Requirement F1(2) and regulations 39 and 44
This section deals with the requirements of Part F1(2) of Schedule 1 and regulations 39 and 44 of the
Building Regulations 2010.
Requirement
Requirement Limits on application
F1. (2) Fixed systems for mechanical ventilation and any Requirement F1 does not apply to a building or
associated controls must be commissioned by space within a building:
testing and adjusting as necessary to secure that
a. into which people do not normally go;
the objective referred to in sub-paragraph (1) is
met. b. which is used solely for storage; or
c. which is a garage used solely in connection with
a single dwelling.
Regulations
Information about ventilation
39. (1) T his regulation applies where paragraph F1(1) of Schedule 1 imposes a requirement in relation to building
work.
(2) T he person carrying out the work shall not later than five days after the work has been completed
give sufficient information to the owner about the building’s ventilation system and its maintenance
requirements so that the ventilation system can be operated in such a manner as to provide adequate
means of ventilation.
Commissioning
44. (1) T his regulation applies to building work in relation to which paragraph F1(2) of Schedule 1 imposes
a requirement, but does not apply to the provision or extension of any fixed system for mechanical
ventilation or any associated controls where testing and adjustment is not possible.
(2) T his regulation also applies to building work in relation to which paragraph L1(b) of Schedule 1 imposes a
requirement, but does not apply to the provision or extension of any fixed building service where testing
and adjustment is not possible or would not affect the energy efficiency of that fixed building service.
(3) W here this regulation applies the person carrying out the work shall, for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with paragraph F1(2) or L1(b) of Schedule 1, give to the local authority a notice confirming that
the fixed building services have been commissioned in accordance with a procedure approved by the
Secretary of State.
(4) The notice shall be given to the local authority—
(a) not later than the date on which the notice required by regulation 16(4) is required to be given; or
(b) where that regulation does not apply, not more than 30 days after completion of the work.
NOTE: Where the building control body is an approved inspector, see regulation 20 of the Building
(Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 (as amended).
20
Approved Document F Volume 2, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N