Fire Safety
6.3 What information on evacuation lifts should be included in
the PFSS or Fire Statement?
6.3.1 The information set out below should be included in the PFSS for non-major
developments and in the Fire Statement for major developments. Applicants
should include or cross reference to this information in the Inclusive Design
Statement for the development (see London Plan policy D5 – Inclusive
design).
6.3.2 To demonstrate the suitable provision of evacuation lifts has been
incorporated into the development, the Fire Statement or the PFSS should
include:
• A capacity assessment
• An evacuation strategy
• An evacuation lift management plan
• A declaration of compliance – see Section 7 below.
i) Capacity assessment
6.3.3 A capacity assessment should be carried out to establish the number and
size of evacuation lifts that the development will need to provide. This
assessment should set out:
• the likely number of occupants and visitors
• the nature of the occupants (for example the likelihood that occupants
may require evacuation in a wheelchair or bed) and any other
assumptions the capacity is based on
• the calculation of the evacuation lift capacity required
• the evacuation lift capacity that would be provided
• any potential risks during evacuation due to the anticipated capacity.
ii) Evacuation strategy
6.3.4 The provision of evacuation lifts and associated facilities such as protected
lifts shafts, lobbies, communication infrastructure and signage should be
designed to support the development’s evacuation strategy. The strategy
must make provision for everyone, including people who require level
access, disabled people with a range of impairments (including mobility,
sensory and cognitive impairments), people who are bed bound and people
who do not have a good understanding of English.
6.3.5 The evacuation strategy and the number and size of the evacuation lifts will
be informed by the capacity assessment, potential speed of the lifts, mobility
of the occupants and number of floors to be evacuated. The Evacuation
Strategy should be reflected in the Building Management Plan (see below).
6.3.6 The evacuation strategy should:
18