Fire Safety
Appendix 4 Standards for evacuation lifts and firefighters’
lifts
A4.1.1 London Plan policy D5(B5) requires that where lifts are installed in a
development, at least one lift per core is to be a suitable sized evacuation
lift. This is a planning requirement which is in addition to any requirement
by the Building Regulations to provide firefighters’ lifts.
A4.1.2 Some of the features of evacuation and firefighters’ lifts differ.
Requirements and standards for firefighters’ lifts are set out in the Building
Regulations and British Standards. There are currently no published
standards for evacuation lifts, however BS 9991 and BS 9999 set out a
holistic approach to fire safety within developments. Standards (EN81-76)
specifically for the inclusion of evacuation lifts were consulted on in 2019
but are not finalised. A draft revised BS 9991 which included guidance on
providing evacuation lifts was consulted on in 2021and is due to be
published in 2022. Below are some of the potential features and
differences between evacuation and firefighters’ lifts.
Table A4.1 Features of Evacuation lifts and firefighters’ lifts
Evacuation lifts Firefighters’ lifts
Description A lift system specifically A lift system designed to
designed to be used as a means facilitate the safe movement of
of escape by people who require firefighters and their equipment
level access in an emergency. in the event of an emergency.
A trained person supports the The fire and rescue service has
use of the lift by persons that exclusive use of the lift for
require an assisted evacuation transporting firefighters and their
following the evacuation equipment.
strategy.
These lifts are generally used as
These lifts are generally used as passenger or goods lifts until
passenger or goods lifts until required by the fire and rescue
required for evacuation. service.
Key Features Fire protected lift shaft Fire protected lift shaft
(Building Protected safe areas (lobbies) in Protected safe areas (lobbies) in
design) front of lift entrances front of lift entrances
Smoke control measures, Smoke control measures
including safe areas (lobbies)
Separate power supply to the lift
Separate power supply to the lift to enable the lift to remain in
to enable the lift to remain in use
33