Fire Safety
7.1.2 Where an evacuation lift has been provided, the declaration of compliance
should confirm that the design, number, size and operation of the evacuation
lift complies with the relevant regulations and standards.
8 Receiving the fire safety information
8.1 Policy compliance and the PFSS, Fire Statement and RES
8.1.1 This guidance does not prescribe the use of specific standards, design
codes or best practice. It is for the author of the fire safety information to set
out and justify which standards the development will be designed to meet
and how they address London Plan Policy D12 and D5(B5). Planning
officers are not experts in fire safety and therefore the onus is on the
applicant for the development through the use of fire safety professionals to
demonstrate compliance with these policies The role of the planning officer
is to ensure information has been provided and considered as part of the
application against the relevant London Plan fire safety policy and not review
it for compliance against building regulations and standards.
8.2 Checking the provision of information for a PFSS or a Fire
Statement
8.2.1 Planning officers should check the PFSS or Fire Statement against the
following criteria:
1) Does the author have appropriate qualifications and expertise?
2) Has the applicant included a declaration of compliance that the fire safety
of the proposed development and the fire safety information satisfies the
requirements of London Plan Policy D12 and D5(B5), where applicable?
3) Has information been provided under each criteria of the policy relevant to
the development (London Plan Policy D12 (A1-A6 for non-major
development and for major development B1-B6))?
4) Is the fire safety information specific and relevant to the development,
including through the use of site and floor plans?
5) Where lifts are proposed:
• have details of the evacuation lifts, and supporting infrastructure
such as lobbies been provided?
• has an outline evacuation strategy been provided?
• has an outline management plan been provided, including how the
evacuation lift will be operated?
6) Is it clear which fire safety regulations, standards, design codes and best
practice the development has been designed to?
20