Fire Safety
5.3.8 Where a lift is provided, the evacuation strategy should also be developed in
line with the guidance in Section 6 of this guidance, which provides more
details on evacuation strategies, including the provision of an evacuation lift.
5.3.9 The evolution of the design of the development and the evacuation strategy
should be iterative.
3) Passive and active fire safety measures
5.3.10 The Fire Statement should set out what passive and active fire safety
measures, including suppression systems, have been considered at the
earliest design stage. The Fire Statement should set out what fire safety
regulations, standards and codes these measures have been designed to
and how they achieve the highest standards of fire safety.
5.3.11 The Fire Statement should also address the guidance set out in paragraphs
4.4.4 to 4.4.6 above.
4) Access and facilities for the fire and rescue service
5.3.12 The Fire Statement must clearly identify the emergency access routes to the
site, including contingency routes and access in the event the primary route
is blocked.
5.3.13 The Fire Statement must identify all active measures included for use by the
fire and rescue service.
5.3.14 The Fire Statement should also address the matters set out in paragraphs
4.4.12 to 4.4.14 above.
5) Access within the site for the fire and rescue service
5.3.15 The Fire Statement must clearly identify the emergency access routes within
the site and to individual buildings for the fire and rescue service. The Fire
Statement should also address the matters relevant to internal site access
set out in paragraphs 4.4.12 to 4.4.14 above.
6) Modifications to the proposed development and the
‘golden thread’ of information
5.3.16 The Fire Statement should set out how fire safety has been considered in
the evolution of the development and how the principles of the golden thread
principle will be implemented. To ensure the highest standards of fire safety
are maintained throughout the lifetime of the development, applicants should
consider how the fire strategy and the protective measures would be
retained and not be compromised. As a minimum, the Fire Statement should
identify the elements of the building that, if modified, may adversely affect
the original fire safety strategy. The Fire Statement should include an outline
management plan for the ongoing maintenance of these provisions.
15