Fire Safety
resistance rated walls, floors and fire doors. Dampers are used to prevent
the spread of smoke throughout any ductwork.
4.4.6 Active fire protection systems require a reaction or action to mitigate the
effects of a fire. Systems are mostly automatic, such as fire alarms, smoke
detectors, sprinkler systems and ventilation systems. Some measures
require manual intervention such as fire extinguishers.
Are constructed in an appropriate way to minimise the risk of fire
spread
4.4.7 The PFSS should detail the construction methods of the development. The
method of construction such as block and brick, timber frame or modular
construction will influence how a fire could spread. The potential fire spread
risks associated with the proposed method of construction should be
identified along with any potential impact on the fire safety of neighbouring
units, sites, buildings and occupants. The PFSS should set out the measures
that will be implemented to limit fire safety risks such as suitable fire control
systems.
4.4.8 The intended fire safety performance of construction materials should be
provided within the PFSS. The identification of the construction methods and
fire resistance performance of materials as part of the initial design phase
supports the golden thread principle and if altered should be assessed for
any adverse impacts and mitigation measures included.
Provide suitable and convenient means of escape, and associated
evacuation strategy for all building users
4.4.9 The PFSS should clearly state how the means of escape for all building
users has been considered and planned for from the initial design of the
development (also see guidance for the provision of evacuation lifts below).
The PFSS should evidence, including through plans, the codes and
standards the means of escape have been designed to meet and any
additional measures that have been included in order for the development to
achieve the highest standards of fire safety, proportionate to the size and
nature of the development.
4.4.10 The proposed means of escape will inform the evacuation strategy. The
PFSS should justify the proposed evacuation strategy, including by
identifying the codes and standards that have informed the strategy. The
evacuation strategy must be inclusive and appropriate for people with
disabilities and those who may not speak or understand English (see London
Plan Policy D5 and guidance on evacuation strategies, including the
provision of evacuation lifts below).
Develop a robust strategy for evacuation which can be periodically
updated and published, and which all building users can have
confidence in
11