Fire Safety
1 Introduction
1.1.1 The fire safety of developments needs be considered from the outset to
ensure the most successful outcomes are achieved for building occupants
and users. The evolution of a fire safety strategy and associated evacuation
strategy is iterative, progressing alongside the detailed design of the
development and understanding of how it will be used and occupied.
1.1.2 This Fire Safety London Plan Guidance (LPG) sets out how applicants
should demonstrate compliance with London Plan Policies D12 and D5(B5),
where applicable. Planning officers are not experts in fire safety. Therefore,
the onus is on the applicant to ensure that they use the necessary fire safety
expertise to demonstrate compliance with these policies. This guidance
provides template forms for the applicant to provide the required fire safety
information and for planning officers to check that information has been
provided against each relevant policy criteria.
2 How this LPG relates to the ‘golden thread’ of
information and the government’s fire safety
gateways
2.1.1 The ‘golden thread’ refers to a concept where the fire safety information of a
building is to be updated and maintained through the whole life of the
building. The fire safety information should be maintained and updated as
the detailed design evolves as well as throughout the construction and
occupation phases. When a development is completed, the fire safety
strategy is to be passed to the regulator and the building owner1 and kept
under review.
2.1.2 This Fire Safety LPG supports the ‘golden thread’ by setting out how
applicants should demonstrate that fire safety has been considered at the
earliest design stage of a development and addressed in the planning
application, in line with London Plan Policies D12 and D5(B5).
2.1.3 The Government’s system of fire safety gateways requires fire safety
information for relevant buildings to be submitted to the regulator (see
Appendix 2 for more information). In comparison to Gateway One, London
Plan Policy D12:
• applies to all land uses
• applies to a lower size threshold
1 Additional information: see Regulation 38 of the Building Regulations 2010
7