Fire Safety
4.4.11 The evacuation strategy should set out how the users of a development will
exit a building to a safe location in the event of an emergency. It should be
relevant to the use, size, anticipated occupancy and associated risk to the
building and its occupants with contingency measures, where necessary.
The PFSS should include a timeframe for the periodic review and update of
the evacuation strategy over the lifetime of the development.
Provide suitable access and equipment for firefighting which is
appropriate for the size and use of the development
4.4.12 The PFSS should identify how emergency access is to be provided to and
within the development site and what fire safety equipment for the fire and
rescue services has been included in the scheme; temporarily for the
construction phase of the development and permanently for the occupation
phase. The author should ensure and confirm in the PFSS that there is an
adequate firefighting water supply.
4.4.13 Section B5 of Approved Document B (ADB) Parts 1 and 2 provide a way to
comply with Part B of Schedule 1 to The Building Regulations 2010
requirement ‘access and facilities for the fire service’. The proposed access
for the fire and rescue service may be provided in line with ADB as a
minimum standard, however the PFSS should set out how the proposed
measures are specific and relevant to the proposed development. The PFSS
should identify any potential obstacles and delays that would impede access
to the site and potential alternative access routes.
4.4.14 Firefighting facilities (where required) can be provided in line with ADB as a
minimum standard, however the PFSS should set out how the proposed
facilities are specific and relevant to the proposed development. The PFSS
should include an outline management plan for the ongoing maintenance of
both the on-site access and firefighting equipment provisions.
5 London Plan Policy D12B – Fire Statements
5.1.1 London Plan Policy D12B states that major development proposals should
be submitted with a Fire Statement.
5.2 Who should write a Fire Statement?
5.2.1 A Fire Statement should be written by a suitably qualified assessor that is:
1) registered with the Engineering Council as an Incorporated Engineer
(IEng) or Chartered Engineer (CEng), and
2) registered with the Institution of Fire Engineers as a Member (MIFireE),
Fellow (FIFireE) or Life Fellow (FIFireE(Life)) of the Institution.
12