Fire Safety
4.4 Guidance on Policy Criteria for London Plan Policy D12(A)
4.4.1 To comply with London Plan Policy D12A, development proposals should
demonstrate, including in a PFSS and on plans that they meet the following
criteria, proportionate to their size and complexity:
Identify suitably positioned unobstructed outside space for fire
appliances to be positioned on
4.4.2 The PFSS should identify areas where fire and rescue service pumping
appliances can be sited. Ideally areas should be identified on the
development site so that they remain in the control of the development.
Where this is not possible, the PFSS should set out the implications of not
having control of this area and any proposed mitigation measures such as
obtaining the agreement of the landowner to keep the area clear for
emergencies.
Identify suitably positioned unobstructed outside space appropriate for
use as an evacuation assembly point
4.4.3 The PFSS should identify a suitably sized evacuation assembly point for
both the construction and occupation phases of the development. Ideally
areas should be identified on the development site so that they remain in the
control of the development. Where this is not possible, the PFSS should set
out the implications of not having control of this area and any proposed
mitigation measures such as obtaining the agreement of the landowner to
keep the area clear for an assembly point during an evacuation.
Are designed to incorporate appropriate features which reduce the risk
to life and the risk of serious injury in the event of a fire, including
appropriate fire alarm systems and passive and active fire safety
measures
4.4.4 The PFSS should set out what passive and active fire safety measures have
been incorporated into the development and what fire safety codes,
standards and regulations these measures have been designed to meet.
The PFSS should identify any additional measures that have been included
to achieve the highest standards of fire safety, proportionate to the size and
nature of the development. Identifying the role these measures play in the
design and fire safety of the development supports the golden thread
approach. If the fire safety measures are altered, the impact on fire safety
should be assessed and mitigation measures included, where required.
4.4.5 Passive and active fire safety measures within a building increase levels of
personal safety and the protection of property in the event of a fire. Passive
measures are the elementary parts of a building or structure that do not
require a reaction or human intervention during a fire. Passive fire protection
is achieved through compartmentalisation, effectively sub-dividing a building
into compartments to prevent the spread of fire, such as with the use of fire-
10