Greater London Authority
London Plan Guidance Sheet
Policy D12(B)
human intervention in a fire situation. An active measure is one that does
require human intervention or reacts dynamically to fire. Examples include
smoke alarm systems, ventilation systems, and emergency lighting systems.
16. Applicants must demonstrate within the Fire Statement that provisions for
passive and active fire safety measures have been considered at the earliest
design stage. Again, applicants should identify the code/s that these
measures have been designed to and demonstrate how the proposals have
sought to exceed those minimum standards.
iv) Access and facilities for the fire and rescue service
17. Any and all provisions for active measures that have been designed into the
development proposal for use by the fire and rescue service must be clearly
identified within the Fire Statement. Requirement B5 of Approved Document
B (volumes 1 and 2) provides a means of compliance against the functional
requirements of the Building Regulations 2010 for such measures.
Development proposals may readily opt to defer to the provisions made
within Approved Document B as a minimum standard, however excerpts
taken from Approved Document B without specific context and
references to the development proposal do not demonstrate
compliance with this policy.
18. Contained within the Fire Statement should also be an outline management
plan for the ongoing maintenance of these provisions.
v) Site access for the fire and rescue service
19. Any and all provisions for emergency access to the site by the fire and
rescue service must be clearly identified within the Fire Statement.
Requirement B5 of The Building Regulations 2010 (detailed in Approved
Document B) provides a means of compliance against the functional
requirements of the Building Regulations 2010 for such measures.
Development proposals may readily opt to defer to the provisions made
within ADB as a minimum standard, however they should be specific and
relevant to the development in question.
20. The Fire Statement should clearly demonstrate how the above provisions do
not adversely impact on neighbouring sites and access to the surrounding
areas.
vi) Future development of the asset and the ‘Golden Thread’ of
information
21. To ensure the highest standards of fire safety are considered throughout the
lifecycle of the proposed asset, London Plan Policy D12(B) part 6 requires
applicants to consider how, if the proposed asset was to be redeveloped in
7