Greater London Authority
London Plan Guidance Sheet
Policy D12(B)
Annex A – Application types and conditions
Information to be submitted with planning applications
A1. The highest standards of fire safety should be embedded in developments
from the earliest possible stage. Therefore, the Fire Statement should be
included as one of the suite of documents submitted with a major planning
application where the applicant has to demonstrate that the requirements of
Policy D12 have been considered as an integral part of their proposals. It
should not be left to a later stage in the development process as this
undermines the purpose of considering fire safety from the outset and as an
integral part of the design.
A2. If the proposed development is submitted as a full planning application
there should be sufficient level of detail in the Fire Statement to address the
criteria identified in Section B of Policy D12 and informational requirements
in Figure 1.
A3. The local planning authority can then include a condition attached to the
grant of planning permission requiring the development to be carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Fire Statement.
A4. If there are any changes to the scheme which require subsequent Section
96a or Section 73 applications, an amended Fire Statement should also be
submitted which incorporates the proposed scheme amendments so that the
content of the Fire Statement always remains consistent with the latest
scheme proposals.
A5. If the proposed development is submitted as an outline planning
application this should be accompanied by an Outline Fire Statement4
which demonstrates commitment to the highest standards of fire safety. The
associated outline planning permission should include a condition which
requires the submission of a Fire Statement as part of any subsequent
reserved matters application.
4 An Outline Fire Statement should be submitted by the applicant with outline planning applications.
Given that it will be a higher-level statement and far less detailed than a Fire Statement for a full
planning or reserved matters application, the author of an Outline Fire Statement does not necessarily
need to meet the competency criteria for the author of Fire Statements as highlighted in this guidance
sheet. However, for continuity and maintenance of the ‘golden thread’ approach (see vi), it is
advisable that they are. Subsequent associated reserved matters application should however meet
the criteria of and follow the process provided in Figure 1 of this guidance sheet, including the
competency criteria for the author of the Fire Statement(s).
9