Greater London Authority
London Plan Guidance Sheet
Policy D12(B)
10. The Fire Statement should detail how the development proposal will
function in terms of, and under the following headings:
i) The building’s construction method and products and materials
used
11. Under this heading, the Fire Statement should specify the construction
method of the development and the measures that will be taken to limit any
impact on the surrounding area. Construction methods that may impact on
the fire safety provisions for neighbouring sites, buildings, occupants etc.
must be identified and the risk reduced using suitable control measures.
Building methodologies that pose a high risk of fire must also be identified
within the Fire Statement with suitable control measures detailed.
12. Where possible, a prescriptive list of the products and materials planned for
use during the construction of the asset/ development should be provided.
As much information as possible should be provided e.g. planned use of
timber for structural framework.
ii) Means of escape for all building users and evacuation strategy
13. Applicants must demonstrate within the Fire Statement that the means of
escape for all building users has been considered and planned into the
scheme from the outset. Applicants should identify the code/s that the
means of escape has been designed to and detail how they have not only
been applied/ adhered to, but also how the proposals have sought to exceed
those minimum standards. It is essential that all building users have been
considered and planned for within the design of the means of escape and
evacuation strategy.
14. There are a number of evacuation strategies/ approaches applicants could
incorporate/ design around. Whichever strategy is incorporated, the
applicant must ensure that the Fire Statement contains reasonable
justification supporting the decision and reference the relevant
code/standard that has led to that outcome. The strategy must make
provision for everyone, including people who require level access, disabled
people with a range of impairments (including mobility, sensory and cognitive
impairments), and people who do not have a good understanding of English.
See Appendix A.
iii) Passive and active fire safety measures
15. Passive and active fire safety measures are provisions contained within a
building that are in place to reduce the overall risk to life and the risk to
building safety in the event of a fire. Examples of passive measures include
compartment walls, fire doors and fire-resistant glazing. They are the
elementary parts of a built asset that do not require intelligent reaction or
6