A O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Purpose-provided ventilation That part of the Ventilation The supply and removal of air (by
ventilation of a building provided by ventilation natural and/or mechanical means) to and from a
devices designed into the building (e.g. background space or spaces in a building. It normally comprises
ventilators, extract fans, mechanical ventilation or a combination of purpose-provided ventilation and
air-conditioning systems). infiltration.
*Room for residential purposes Defined in Wet room A room used for domestic activities
regulation 2(1) as a room, or a suite of rooms, (such as cooking, clothes washing and bathing) that
which is not a dwelling-house or a flat and which produce significant amounts of airborne moisture,
is used by one or more persons to live and sleep e.g. a kitchen, utility room or bathroom. For the
and includes a room in a hostel, an hotel, a purposes of Part F of the Building Regulations,
boarding house, a hall of residence or a residential sanitary accommodation is also regarded as a wet
home, but does not include a room in a hospital, room.
or other similar establishment, used for patient
Whole dwelling ventilation (general ventilation)
accommodation.
Nominally continuous ventilation of rooms or
Sanitary accommodation A space containing one spaces at a relatively low rate to dilute and remove
or more flush toilets (WCs) or urinals. Sanitary pollutants and water vapour not removed by
accommodation containing one or more cubicles extract ventilation, purge ventilation or infiltration,
counts as one space if there is free circulation of air as well as to supply outdoor air into the dwelling.
throughout the space.
Shared communal rooms Rooms in buildings
containing dwellings, which provide facilities for the
residents. For example, a laundry room, occupied
lobby or gym. This does not include areas used
solely or principally for circulation in buildings
containing dwellings, including corridors or lift
lobbies.
Surface water activity A measure of the availability
of water to micro-organisms. Surface water
activity is determined from the ratio of the vapour
pressure of the water in the substrate to the vapour
pressure of pure water at the same temperature
and pressure. This ratio, in steady-state conditions,
is numerically equal to the equilibrium relative
humidity of the air, except that the latter is
commonly expressed as a percentage.
Thermal envelope The combination of thermal
elements of a building which enclose a particular
conditioned indoor space or group of indoor
spaces.
Utility room A room containing a sink or other
feature or equipment that may reasonably be
expected to produce significant quantities of water
vapour.
38
Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N