OFN L1I(N2E) V, ERR S3I O9N, R42, R44
Section 4: Commissioning and providing
information
Air flow rate testing and commissioning of ventilation
systems
4.1 Mechanical ventilation systems must be commissioned to provide adequate ventilation. A
commissioning notice must be given to the building control body.
4.2 Air flow rates for mechanical ventilation in new dwellings must be measured. A notice of the
measured air flow rates must be given to the building control body.
NOTE: Paragraphs 4.1 and 4.2 apply to intermittent extract as well as continuous mechanical
ventilation systems.
4.3 The person responsible for commissioning should complete air flow measurement test and
commissioning sheets including, as a minimum, all information in Part 3 of the example sheet given
in Appendix C.
NOTE: When mechanical ventilation is commissioned, the use of fuel and power should also be
considered in accordance with Part L of the Building Regulations (L1(b) of Schedule 1). Installers
may provide notice of commissioning to cover Part F (F1(2) of Schedule 1) and Part L in the same
document.
Inspection standards
4.4 Ventilation systems should be inspected and tested in accordance with paragraphs 4.5 to 4.12.
Background ventilators and intermittent extract ventilation
4.5 For background ventilators, all of the following measures should be undertaken and the results
recorded using the checklist in Appendix C.
a. The minimum equivalent area for background ventilators from Table 1.7 should be identified and
recorded.
b. The actual equivalent area and location of installed background ventilators should be recorded.
c. Checks should be made to determine that the background ventilator controls work and that
they open and close correctly.
d. The quality of the installation of the ventilator product should be checked to ensure it is
correctly mounted within the wall or window aperture.
4.6 For intermittent extract fans, the installer should carry out checks to establish the following.
a. That the fans operate correctly.
b. That the fans respond correctly to the controls provided with the installation.
c. That any run-on timers are set to at least 15 minutes.
31
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition
O N L I N E V E R S I O N