F1(2), R39,O RN L4I N2E, VRE R4S I4O N
Controls
4.11 The correct operation of each control function should be tested where it is practical. Ventilation
controls should be inspected to ensure that the following have been achieved.
a. All local controls have been installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
b. All local controls are adequately labelled to clearly indicate their function.
c. If sensors have been installed separately from the fan unit, that the manufacturer’s installation
instructions were followed.
d. Where control of the fan is automated, that the controls are configured to ensure that
automatic controls do not disturb occupants; for example, by sudden changes in fan speed.
4.12 If manual controls are provided, clear and detailed instructions should be given to the occupier as
part of the information package described in paragraphs 4.13 to 4.17.
Operating and maintenance instructions
4.13 Sufficient information about the ventilation system and its maintenance requirements must be
given to the building owner to allow the system to be operated effectively. This should include
both design flow rates and maintenance requirements. The information should be provided in a
clear manner, for a non-technical audience.
4.14 A copy of the completed commissioning sheet in Appendix C should be given to the owner of the
dwelling.
4.15 The operation and maintenance information should contain specific instructions for the end user
on how and when to use the ventilation system, including information on the intended uses for the
available fan settings. Information should also be provided to suggest when, and how, the system
components should be cleaned and maintained.
4.16 The following information should be provided where relevant.
a. Manufacturer’s contact details.
b. That background ventilators allow fresh air into the home and should be left open.
c. The location of automatic controls and how to set them.
d. The location of manual controls for the on/off and high rate settings for a mechanical
ventilation system and how to use them.
e. How cleaning and maintenance of the system and its components should be carried out. This
includes the location and specification of filters and how to assess when to replace filters.
f. How to access ducts for cleaning, how to undertake cleaning of plant and ducts and the
intervals at which cleaning should be undertaken.
g. The location of sensors and how to recalibrate them.
h. Design flow rates.
34
Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N