A O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Appendix A: Key terms
Except for the items marked * (which are from the Continuous mechanical extract ventilation
Building Regulations 2010), these definitions apply Mechanically driven ventilation that continuously
only to Approved Document F, Volume 1: Dwellings. extracts indoor air and discharges it to the outside.
Air permeability The measure of airtightness of Continuous operation Uninterrupted running of a
the building fabric. It is defined as the air leakage mechanical ventilation device, such as continuous
rate per hour per m2 of envelope area at the test mechanical extract ventilation or mechanical
reference pressure differential of 50Pa or 4Pa. ventilation with heat recovery. The air flow rate
provided by mechanical ventilation need not be
Airtightness The resistance of the building
constant but may be varied, under either manual or
envelope to infiltration when ventilators are closed.
automatic control, in response to the demand for
The greater the airtightness at a given pressure
the removal of pollutants or water vapour.
difference across the envelope, the lower the
infiltration. Dwelling A self-contained unit designed to
accommodate a single household.
Automatic controls A system whereby a ventilation
device is adjusted by a mechanical or electronic Equivalent area A measure of the aerodynamic
controller that responds to a relevant stimulus. That performance of a ventilator. It is the area of a sharp-
stimulus usually relates to the humidity of the air in edged circular orifice through which air would pass
a room, pollutant levels, occupancy of the space or at the same volume flow rate, under an identical
pressure difference across the device. applied pressure difference, as through the opening
under consideration. The equivalent area of a
Background ventilator A small ventilation opening
background ventilator is determined at 1Pa pressure
designed to provide controllable whole dwelling
difference in accordance with Table 1.7.
ventilation.
Expert advice Advice from a suitably qualified
Basement (in relation to a dwelling) A dwelling or a
competent person. Examples from the ventilation
usable part of a dwelling (i.e. a habitable room) that
industry of a person competent to give expert
is partly or entirely below ground level. Note that
advice include a chartered or professional engineer,
a cellar is distinct from a basement, in that a cellar
a building services specialist, a specialist ventilation
is used only for storage, heating plant or purposes
manufacturer or members of professional trade
other than habitation.
bodies.
Bathroom A room that contains a bath or
Extract ventilation The removal of air directly
shower and which can also include sanitary
from an internal space or spaces to the outside.
accommodation.
Extract ventilation may be by natural means or by
Building control body A local authority or an mechanical means (e.g. by an extract fan or a central
approved inspector. system).
Free area The geometric open area of a ventilator.
Habitable room A room used for dwelling
purposes but which is not solely a kitchen,
utility room, bathroom, cellar or sanitary
accommodation.
36
Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N