O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Section 0: Introduction
Summary
0.1 This approved document is Approved Document F, Volume 1: Dwellings. It gives guidance on how
to comply with Part F of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations. For guidance relating to non-
domestic buildings, use Approved Document F, Volume 2: Buildings other than dwellings.
0.2 This approved document contains the following sections:
Approved document section Related Building Regulations requirements
Section 0: Introduction n/a
Section 1: Ventilation provision Requirement F1(1)
Section 2: Minimising the ingress of external pollutants
Section 3: Work on existing dwellings
Section 4: Commissioning and providing information Requirement F1(2) and regulations 39, 42 and 44
Appendix A: Key terms n/a
Appendix B: Performance-based ventilation n/a
Appendix C: Completion checklist and commissioning n/a
sheet
Appendix D: Checklist for ventilation provision in existing n/a
dwellings
Appendix E: Standards referred to n/a
Appendix F: Documents referred to n/a
Application
0.3 The guidance in Approved Document F, Volume 1 applies only to dwellings.
For blocks of flats with shared communal rooms, Approved Document F, Volume 2: Buildings other
than dwellings should be consulted.
NOTE: Dwellings are self-contained units. Rooms for residential purposes and buildings that contain
only rooms for residential purposes are not dwellings and are covered by Approved Document F,
Volume 2: Buildings other than dwellings.
Exemptions
0.4 Certain types of building are exempt from the Part F requirements of the Building Regulations.
These are outlined in paragraphs A7 to A13 of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
Historic and traditional buildings
0.5 Work to the following types of dwellings may not need to comply fully with the ventilation
standards in this approved document.
a. Those listed in accordance with section 1 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation
Areas) Act 1990.
1
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition
O N L I N E V E R S I O N