O N L I N E V E R S I O N C
Part 2b – Inspection of installation
The commissioning engineer should complete this section before completing Part 3.
2b.1 Visual inspections – general (all systems)
What is the total installed equivalent area of background ventilators in the dwelling? mm2
What is the total floor area of the dwelling? m2
Does the total installed equivalent ventilator area meet the standards detailed in Table 1.7 Yes No
or paragraph 1.57(1), as appropriate?
Have all background ventilators been left in the open position? Yes No
Have the correct number and location of extract fans/terminals been installed to satisfy Yes No
the standards in Table 1.1 or Table 1.2, as appropriate?
Is the installation complete, with no obvious defects? Yes No
Do all internal doors have enough undercut to allow air transfer between rooms as Yes No
detailed in paragraph 1.25 (i.e. 10mm above the floor finish or 20mm above the floor
surface)?
Has all protection/packaging been removed (including from background ventilators), so Yes No
that the system is fully functional?
Are systems clean internally and externally? Yes No
Has the entire system been installed to allow access for routine maintenance and to Yes No
repair/replace components?
2b.2 Visual inspections – general (continuous mechanical extract ventilation and mechanical ventilation with heat
recovery systems only)
Have appropriate air terminal devices been installed to allow system balance? Yes No
Have the heat recovery unit and all ductwork been effectively insulated and sealed for all Yes No
heated and unheated spaces?
Is the condensate connection complete and does the condensate drain to an appropriate Yes No
location (mechanical ventilation with heat recovery only)?
Are filters installed? Yes No
For ducted systems, has the ductwork been installed so that air resistance and leakage is Yes No
kept to a minimum?
2b.3 Other inspections – general (all systems)
At initial start-up, was there any abnormal sound or vibration, or unusual smell? Yes No
During continuous operation, was there any excessive noise? Yes No
NOTE:
1. All references to tables and paragraphs are to Approved Document F, Volume 1: Dwellings.
45
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition
O N L I N E V E R S I O N