O N L I N E V E R S I O N
If building work consists only of installing certain types of services or fittings (e.g. fuel-burning
appliances or replacement windows) and the building owner employs an installer that is registered
with a relevant competent person scheme designated in the regulations, a building control body does
not need to be notified.
For further information about competent person schemes, see Chapter 5 in Volume 1 and Chapter C
in Volume 2 of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
How to use this approved document
Each approved document contains:
• general guidance on the performance expected of materials and building work in order to comply
with each of the requirements of the Building Regulations, and
• practical examples and solutions on how to achieve compliance for some of the more common
building situations.
They may not provide appropriate guidance if the case is unusual in terms of its design, setting, use,
scale or technology. Non-standard conditions may include any of the following:
• difficult ground conditions
• buildings with unusual occupancies or high levels of complexity
• very large or very tall buildings
• large timber buildings
• some buildings that incorporate modern construction methods.
Anyone using the approved documents should have sufficient knowledge and skills to understand
the guidance and correctly apply it to the building work. This is important because simply following
the guidance does not guarantee that your building work will comply with the legal requirements
of the Building Regulations. Each approved document contains legal requirements (which you must
follow) and guidance (which you may or may not choose to follow). The text in a box with a green
background at the beginning of each section of an approved document is taken from the Building
Regulations. This text sets out the legal requirements.
The explanation which follows the legal requirements is guidance (see Diagram i below). The guidance
then explains one or more ways to demonstrate how building work can be shown to comply with the
legal requirements in common circumstances. The terms in green lettering in an approved document
are key terms, listed and explained in the appendix to that approved document. Guidance in the
approved documents addresses most, but not all, situations that building owners will face. Situations
may arise that are not covered. You or your advisers will need to carefully consider whether following
the guidance will mean that the requirements of the Building Regulations will be met.
iii
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition
O N L I N E V E R S I O N