OFN L1I(N2E) V, ERR S3I O9N, R42, R44
Regulations
Information about ventilation
39. (1) This regulation applies where paragraph F1(1) of Schedule 1 imposes a requirement in relation to building
work.
(2) The person carrying out the work shall not later than five days after the work has been completed
give sufficient information to the owner about the building’s ventilation system and its maintenance
requirements so that the ventilation system can be operated in such a manner as to provide adequate
means of ventilation.
Mechanical ventilation air flow rate testing
42. (1) This regulation applies where paragraph F1(1) of Schedule 1 imposes a requirement in relation to the creation
of a new dwelling by building work.
(2) The person carrying out the work shall, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with paragraph F1(1) of
Schedule 1—
(a) e nsure that testing of the mechanical ventilation air flow rate is carried out in accordance with a
procedure approved by the Secretary of State; and
(b) g ive notice of the results of the testing to the local authority.
(3) The notice referred to in paragraph (2)(b) shall—
(a) r ecord the results and the data upon which they are based in a manner approved by the Secretary of
State; and
(b) be given to the local authority not later than five days after the final test is carried out.
Commissioning
44. (1) This regulation applies to building work in relation to which paragraph F1(2) of Schedule 1 imposes
a requirement, but does not apply to the provision or extension of any fixed system for mechanical
ventilation or any associated controls where testing and adjustment is not possible.
(2) This regulation also applies to building work in relation to which paragraph L1(b) of Schedule 1 imposes a
requirement, but does not apply to the provision or extension of any fixed building service where testing
and adjustment is not possible or would not affect the energy efficiency of that fixed building service.
(3) Where this regulation applies the person carrying out the work shall, for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with paragraph F1(2) or L1(b) of Schedule 1, give to the local authority a notice confirming that
the fixed building services have been commissioned in accordance with a procedure approved by the
Secretary of State.
(4) The notice shall be given to the local authority—
(a) not later than the date on which the notice required by regulation 16(4) is required to be given; or
(b) where that regulation does not apply, not more than 30 days after completion of the work.
NOTE: Where the building control body is an approved inspector, see regulation 20 of the Building
(Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 (as amended).
29
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition
O N L I N E V E R S I O N