O N L I N E V E R S I O N
b. Those in a conservation area designated in accordance with section 69 of the Planning (Listed
Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990.
c. Other historic buildings with a vapour-permeable construction that both absorbs moisture and
readily allows moisture to evaporate. These include those built with wattle and daub, cob or
stone and constructions using lime render or mortar.
0.6 Work to a building in paragraph 0.5 should comply with the ventilation standards in this approved
document where reasonably practicable. The work should not result in either of the following
outcomes.
a. Unacceptably affect the significance of the listed building, conservation area or scheduled
monument.
b. Increase the risk of long-term deterioration of the building fabric or fittings.
0.7 New extensions to historic and traditional dwellings should comply with all ventilation standards
in this approved document unless there is a need to match the external appearance or character of
the extension to that of the host building.
0.8 The local authority’s conservation officer should be consulted when undertaking work to a building
in paragraphs 0.5a or 0.5b.
Emergency repairs
0.9 For emergency repairs, if it is not possible to notify the building control body in advance, the
building control body should be notified as soon as possible. If the installer is registered with a
competent person scheme, see Chapter 5 in Volume 1 and Chapter C in Volume 2 of the Manual to
the Building Regulations.
Minor works
0.10 Minor works must comply with the relevant requirements of the Building Regulations, but
the building control body does not need to be notified.
For mechanical ventilation and air-conditioning systems, minor works include any of the following.
a. Replacing parts.
b. Adding an output or control device if testing and adjusting the system would not affect its
energy efficiency or would not be possible.
c. Providing a self-contained mechanical ventilation or air-conditioning appliance when all the
following apply.
i. Any electrical work is exempt from a requirement to give advance notice to a building
control body.
ii. Testing and adjusting the system would not affect its energy efficiency or would not be
possible.
iii. The appliance is not installed in a room that contains an open-flued combustion appliance.
Live/work units
0.11 A unit that contains both living accommodation and space for commercial purposes (e.g. for a
workshop or office) should be treated as a dwelling if the commercial part can be reverted to
domestic use.
2
Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N