F1(1) O N L I N E V E R S I O N
3.5 When a building undergoes a material change of use, Part F of Schedule 1 to the Building
Regulations applies to the building or part of the building that has changed use. Guidance in
Section 1 should be followed.
NOTE: Ventilation equipment is considered to be a ‘controlled service or fitting’ and providing or
extending this equipment in or in connection with a building is considered to be building work.
NOTE: Some building work does not need to be notified to the local authority. Details of such
work are set out in the Manual to the Building Regulations.
Installing energy efficiency measures
3.6 Many existing dwellings are ventilated through infiltration rather than purposeful ventilation.
Energy efficiency measures carried out on existing dwellings might reduce infiltration and cause the
dwelling to become under-ventilated.
Building work should not reduce the ventilation provision of the dwelling unless it can be
demonstrated that the ventilation provision after the work is carried out meets the minimum
standards of requirement F1(1).
3.7 When carrying out energy efficiency measures to an existing dwelling, an assessment should
determine what, if any, additional ventilation provision is needed, based on the estimated impact
of the work. The assessment should be carried out by one of the following means.
a. Applying the simplified method in paragraphs 3.8 to 3.13.
b. Seeking expert advice, which may include carrying out an air permeability test that follows the
procedures given in Approved Document L, Volume 1: Dwellings.
NOTE: Following BSI PAS 2035 is considered to be an adequate means of demonstrating
compliance with paragraph 3.6.
Simplified method
NOTE: The simplified method set out in paragraphs 3.8 to 3.13 is designed to apply to an existing
dwelling that is assumed to have adequate means of ventilation through a combination of purpose-
provided ventilation and infiltration. If the property differs significantly from this assumption, the
requirements of paragraph 3.6 must still be met. This should be demonstrated through seeking expert
advice or using another suitable method.
3.8 When carrying out energy efficiency measures on an existing dwelling, Table 3.1 should be used
to calculate the number of major and minor energy efficiency measures involved. This calculation
should include all of the following.
a. Energy efficiency measures fitted since the original dwelling was constructed, to consider
accumulation of measures.
b. Energy efficiency measures planned.
NOTE: Where specific energy efficiency measures are not included in Table 3.1, the most similar
category should be chosen instead.
3.9 Diagram 3.1 should then be used to determine the category that the works result in.
22
Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N