O N L I N E V E R S I O N F1(1)
Table 3.1 Energy efficiency measures
Category of measure
Roof insulation
a. Renewing loft insulation, including effective edge sealing at junctions and penetrations Minor
b. Loft conversions or works that include changing a cold loft (insulation at ceiling level) to Minor
a warm loft (insulation at roof level)
Wall insulation
c. Installing cavity wall insulation to any external wall Minor
d. Installing external or internal wall insulation to less than or equal to 50% of the external Minor
wall area
e. Installing external or internal wall insulation to more than 50% of the external wall area Major
Replacement of windows and doors(1)
f. Replacing less than or equal to 30% of the total existing windows or door units Minor
g. Replacing more than 30% of the total existing windows or door units Major
Draught-proofing (other than openings)(2)
h. Replacing a loft hatch with a sealed/insulated unit Minor
i. Sealing around structural or service penetrations through walls, floors or ceiling/roof Minor
j. Sealing and/or insulating a suspended ground floor Major
k. Removing chimney or providing another means of sealing over chimney, internally or Major
externally
NOTES:
1. If the energy efficiency works involve only replacing windows, then the guidance in paragraphs 3.14 to 3.16 may be
followed as an alternative means of demonstrating compliance.
2. Draught-proofing measures might not, on their own, constitute building work. This work may be controllable
under the Building Regulations if carried out as part of other building work.
Number of minor measures
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0 Category A
1
Number Category B
of major 2
measures
3
Category C
4
Diagram 3.1 C hart for categorising impact on ventilation when carrying out works in existing
dwellings
3.10 If the method in Diagram 3.1 results in the work being categorised as Category A, it is likely that the
energy efficiency measures have not reduced the ventilation provision of the dwelling below the
requirements of F1(1) so no further ventilation provision is necessary.
23
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document F Volume 1, 2021 edition
O N L I N E V E R S I O N