Minimum energy performance requirements for new buildings
25. The Secretary of State shall approve minimum energy performance requirements for new
buildings, in the form of target CO emission rates, which shall be based upon the methodology
2
approved pursuant to regulation 24.
CO emission rates for new buildings
2
26. Where a building is erected, it shall not exceed the target CO emission rate for the building
2
that has been approved pursuant to regulation 25.
CO emission rate calculations
2
27.—(1) This regulation applies where a building is erected and regulation 26 applies.
(2) Not later than the day before the work starts, the person carrying out the work shall give the
local authority a notice which specifies—
(a) the target CO emission rate for the building,
2
(b) the calculated CO emission rate for the building as designed, and
2
(c) a list of specifications to which the building is to be constructed.
(3) Not later than five days after the work has been completed, the person carrying out the work
shall give the local authority—
(a) a notice which specifies—
(i) the target CO emission rate for the building,
2
(ii) the calculated CO emission rate for the building as constructed, and
2
(iii) whether the building has been constructed in accordance with the list of
specifications referred to in paragraph (2)(c), and if not a list of any changes to those
specifications; or
(b) a certificate of the sort referred to in paragraph (4) accompanied by the information
referred to in sub-paragraph (a).
(4) A local authority are authorised to accept, as evidence that the requirements of regulation 26
have been satisfied, a certificate to that effect by an energy assessor who is accredited to produce
such certificates for that category of building.
(5) In this regulation, “specifications” means specifications used for the calculation of the CO
2
emission rate.
Consequential improvements to energy performance
28.—(1) Paragraph (2) applies to an existing building with a total useful floor area over 1,000m2
where the proposed building work consists of or includes—
(a) an extension;
(b) the initial provision of any fixed building services; or
(c) an increase to the installed capacity of any fixed building services.
(2) Subject to paragraph (3), where this paragraph applies, such work, if any, shall be carried out
as is necessary to ensure that the building complies with the requirements of Part L of Schedule 1.
(3) Nothing in paragraph (2) requires work to be carried out if it is not technically, functionally
and economically feasible.
Energy performance certificates
29.—(1) This regulation applies where—
18