compliance of the work with paragraph E1 of Schedule 1, the person is using one or more design
details approved by Robust Details Limited(a), provided that—
(a) the notification specifies—
(i) the part or parts of the building in respect of which the person is using the design
detail;
(ii) the design detail concerned; and
(iii) the unique number issued by Robust Details Limited in respect of the specified use
of that design detail; and
(b) the building work carried out in respect of the part or parts of the building identified in
the notification is in accordance with the design detail specified in the notification.
Mechanical ventilation air flow rate testing
42.—(1) This regulation applies where paragraph F1(1) of Schedule 1 imposes a requirement in
relation to the creation of a new dwelling by building work.
(2) The person carrying out the work shall, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with paragraph
F1(1) of Schedule 1—
(a) ensure that testing of the mechanical ventilation air flow rate is carried out in
accordance with a procedure approved by the Secretary of State; and
(b) give notice of the results of the testing to the local authority.
(3) The notice referred to in paragraph (2)(b) shall—
(a) record the results and the data upon which they are based in a manner approved by the
Secretary of State; and
(b) be given to the local authority not later than five days after the final test is carried out.
Pressure testing
43.—(1) This regulation applies to the erection of a building in relation to which paragraph
L1(a)(i) of Schedule 1 imposes a requirement.
(2) Where this regulation applies, the person carrying out the work shall, for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with regulation 26 and paragraph L1(a)(i) of Schedule 1—
(a) ensure that—
(i) pressure testing is carried out in such circumstances as are approved by the Secretary
of State; and
(ii) the testing is carried out in accordance with a procedure approved by the Secretary of
State; and
(b) subject to paragraph (5), give notice of the results of the testing to the local authority.
(3) The notice referred to in paragraph (2)(b) shall—
(a) record the results and the data upon which they are based in a manner approved by the
Secretary of State; and
(b) be given to the local authority not later than seven days after the final test is carried out.
(4) A local authority are authorised to accept, as evidence that the requirements of paragraph
(2)(a)(ii) have been satisfied, a certificate to that effect by a person who is registered by the British
Institute of Non-destructive Testing(b) in respect of pressure testing for the air tightness of
buildings.
(5) Where such a certificate contains the information required by paragraph (3)(a), paragraph
(2)(b) does not apply.
(a) A company formed and registered under the Companies Acts with the registration number 04980223.
(b) A charity registered under number 260666.
24