Energy assessors
30.—(1) An energy assessor must be a member of an accreditation scheme approved by the
Secretary of State.
(2) The terms of approval of any accreditation scheme may be limited in relation to the categories
of building for which members may produce certificates.
(3) Before approving an accreditation scheme the Secretary of State must be satisfied that the
scheme contains adequate provision—
(a) for ensuring that members of the scheme carry out consistent and accurate energy
assessments in an independent manner;
(b) for ensuring that members of the scheme are fit and proper persons who are qualified
(by their education, training and experience) to carry out energy assessments;
(c) for requiring members of the scheme to prepare energy performance certificates and
recommendation reports using a standard form for each type of document;
(d) for ensuring the production and publication of a code as regards the conduct required of
its members;
(e) for indemnity arrangements in relation to owners and prospective or actual buyers or
tenants;
(f) for facilitating the resolution of complaints against members of the scheme;
(g) for requiring energy performance certificates and recommendation reports produced by
members of the scheme to be entered on the relevant register referred to in paragraph
(4); and
(h) for the keeping of a register of the members of the scheme.
(4) An energy assessor who issues an energy performance certificate and recommendation report
must ensure they are entered onto the relevant register maintained by the Secretary of State in
accordance with regulation 31 of the Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections)
(England and Wales) Regulations 2007(a) before giving them to the person who requested them.
Related party disclosures
31. An energy assessor must include in an energy performance certificate a declaration of any
personal or business relationship (other than in relation to producing the certificate) that the
energy assessor has with—
(a) the person who commissioned the certificate; and
(b) any person who the energy assessor believes—
(i) has or may have a personal or business relationship with the person who
commissioned the certificate; or
(ii) has or may have an interest in the building.
Duty of care
32.—(1) Energy assessors must carry out energy assessments with reasonable care and skill.
(2) The duty imposed by paragraph (1) shall be enforceable by the following persons—
(a) the owner; and
(b) any prospective or actual buyer or tenant of the building during the period of validity of
the certificate.
(3) Any cause of action arising in relation to the duty imposed by paragraph (1) is deemed not to
be an action founded on tort for the purposes of the Limitation Act 1980(b).
(a) S.I. 2007/991, amended by S.I. 2008/2363.
(b) 1980 c.58.
20