(c) temporary buildings with a planned time of use of two years or less, industrial sites,
workshops and non-residential agricultural buildings with low energy demand;
(d) stand-alone buildings other than dwellings with a total useful floor area of less than
50m2.
(4) This paragraph applies to any extension of a building falling within class 7 in Schedule 2
except a conservatory or porch—
(a) where any wall, door or window separating the conservatory or porch from that
building has been removed and not replaced with a wall, door or window; or
(b) into which the building’s heating system has been extended.
(5) In this regulation, the following terms have the same meaning as in European Parliament and
Council Directive 2002/91/EC of 16 December 2002 on the energy performance of buildings(a)—
(i) “industrial sites”;
(ii) “low energy demand”;
(iii) “non-residential agricultural buildings”;
(iv) “places of worship”;
(v) “stand-alone”;
(vi) “total useful floor area”;
(vii) “workshops”.
Requirements relating to a change to energy status
22. Where there is a change to a building’s energy status, such work, if any, shall be carried out
as is necessary to ensure that the building complies with the applicable requirements of Part L of
Schedule 1.
Requirements relating to thermal elements
23.—(1) Where a person intends to renovate a thermal element, such work shall be carried out
as is necessary to ensure that the whole thermal element complies with the requirements of
paragraph L1(a)(i) of Schedule 1.
(2) Where a thermal element is replaced, the new thermal element shall comply with the
requirements of paragraph L1(a)(i) of Schedule 1.
Methodology of calculation and expression of energy performance
24.—(1) The Secretary of State shall approve—
(a) a methodology of calculation of the energy performance of buildings, including
methods for calculating asset ratings and operational ratings of buildings; and
(b) ways in which the energy performance of buildings, as calculated in accordance with
the methodology, shall be expressed.
(2) In this regulation—
“asset rating” means a numerical indicator of the amount of energy estimated to meet the
different needs associated with a standardised use of the building; and
“operational rating” means a numerical indicator of the amount of energy consumed during
the occupation of a building over a period of time.
(a) OJ No. L1, 4.1.2003, p.65, as amended by Regulation (EC) No. 1137/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council
(OJ No. L311, 21.11.2008, p.1).
17