EXPLANATORY NOTE
(This note is not part of the Regulations)
These Regulations revoke and replace the Building Regulations 2000 (S.I. 2000/2531) (“the 2000
Regulations”), and consolidate all subsequent amendments to those Regulations with minor
amendments. The amendments include removing the requirement, where building work involves
inserting insulation into a cavity wall, to submit along with a building notice a statement about the
proposed insulating material. The Regulations also insert into Schedule 3 three new types of work
that may be carried out under a self-certification scheme, and revise the list of bodies which are
able to register persons for the purposes of self-certification. The three new types of work are the
installation of cavity wall insulating material, replacement of roof coverings and installation of
systems to produce electricity, heat or cooling by microgeneration or from renewable sources. The
authorisation of this last category of work supports the implementation of article 14 of European
Parliament and Council Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of the use of energy from
renewable sources (OJ No. L140, 5.6.2009, p.16).
The Regulations impose requirements on people carrying out “building work” which is defined in
regulation 3 as the erection or extension of a building; the provision or extension of a controlled
service or fitting; the material alteration of a building or controlled service or fitting; work
required in relation to a material change of use; insertion of insulating material into a cavity wall;
work involving underpinning of a building; work required to replace or renovate thermal elements;
work relating to a change in a building’s energy status and work relating to improvement of the
energy status of certain large existing buildings. Relevant definitions are found in regulations 2,
3(2) (“material alteration”) and 5 (“material change of use”).
Building work must be carried out so that it complies with the applicable requirements set out in
Parts A to P of Schedule 1 and in complying with such requirements there must be no failure to
comply with any other such requirements (regulation 4). The requirements in Schedule 1 relate to
structure (Part A), fire safety (Part B), site preparation and resistance to contaminants and
moisture (Part C), toxic substances (Part D), resistance to the passage of sound (Part E),
ventilation (Part F), sanitation, hot water safety and water efficiency (Part G), drainage and waste
disposal (Part H), combustion appliances and fuel storage systems (Part J), protection from falling,
collision and impact (Part K), conservation of fuel and power (Part L), access to and use of
buildings (Part M), glazing – safety in relation to impact, opening and cleaning (Part N) and
electrical safety (Part P). Not all provisions of Schedule 1 apply to all building work.
Regulation 7 requires that building work must be carried out with adequate and proper materials
and in a workmanlike manner.
Regulations 9 and 10 provide for exemptions. Regulation 11 allows local authorities to dispense
with or relax requirements of these Regulations. A person intending to carry out building work is
not required to give a building notice or deposit full plans where the work is carried out under a
self-certification scheme set out in Schedule 3 or where work falls within Schedule 4 (regulation
12(6)).
Part 3 requires a person intending to carry out building work to give the local authority a building
notice or to deposit full plans with the authority (regulation 12) and contains requirements relating
to building notices and full plans (regulations 13 and 14) and other procedural requirements.
Part 4 provides that Part 3 and other provisions of these Regulations do not apply where work is
supervised in accordance with Part 2 of the Building Act 1984 (c.55) and the Building (Approved
Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 (S.I. 2010/2215).
Part 5 contains provision about self-certification schemes. Membership of self-certification
schemes exempts persons carrying out relevant work from the normal requirements under the
Building Regulations to notify the local authority of an intention to carry out the work.
Part 6 contains provision transposing articles 3 to 6 of the Energy Performance of Buildings
Directive (OJ No. L1, 4.1.2003, p.65), a transposition note for which is attached to the
53