Commissioning
44.—(1) This regulation applies to building work in relation to which paragraph F1(2) of
Schedule 1 imposes a requirement, but does not apply to the provision or extension of any fixed
system for mechanical ventilation or any associated controls where testing and adjustment is not
possible.
(2) This regulation also applies to building work in relation to which paragraph L1(b) of Schedule
1 imposes a requirement, but does not apply to the provision or extension of any fixed building
service where testing and adjustment is not possible or would not affect the energy efficiency of that
fixed building service.
(3) Where this regulation applies the person carrying out the work shall, for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with paragraph F1(2) or L1(b) of Schedule 1, give to the local authority a
notice confirming that the fixed building services have been commissioned in accordance with a
procedure approved by the Secretary of State.
(4) The notice shall be given to the local authority—
(a) not later than the date on which the notice required by regulation 16(4) is required to be
given; or
(b) where that regulation does not apply, not more than 30 days after completion of the
work.
PART 10
Miscellaneous
Testing of building work
45. The local authority may make such tests of any building work as may be necessary to
establish whether it complies with regulation 7 or any of the applicable requirements contained in
Schedule 1.
Sampling of material
46. The local authority may take such samples of the material to be used in the carrying out of
building work as may be necessary to enable them to ascertain whether such materials comply
with the provisions of these Regulations.
Contravention of certain regulations not to be an offence
47. Regulations 17, 27, 29, 37, 41, 42, 43 and 44 are designated as provisions to which section
35 of the Act (penalty for contravening building regulations) does not apply.
Electronic service of documents
48.—(1) Section 94A of the Act(a) (electronic service of documents) shall have effect as if the
following documents were documents mentioned in subsection (7) of that section—
(a) a building notice and any accompanying statement, description, particulars or plan
under regulation 13;
(b) full plans and any accompanying statement under regulation 14;
(c) a notice under regulation 16;
(d) a completion certificate under regulation 17;
(a) Section 94A was inserted by S.I. 2008/2334.
25