where the work does not include any work to underground drainage, and includes no
work to the hot or cold water system or above ground drainage, which may prejudice the
health or safety of any person on completion of the work;
(k) in relation to an existing cold water supply—
(i) replacing any part,
(ii) adding an output device, or
(iii) adding a control device;
(l) providing a hot water storage system that has a storage vessel with a capacity not
exceeding 15 litres, where any electrical work associated with its provision is exempt
from the requirement to give a building notice or to deposit full plans by virtue of
regulation 9 or 12(6)(b);
(m) installation of thermal insulation in a roof space or loft space where—
(i) the work consists solely of the installation of such insulation, and
(ii) the work is not carried out in order to comply with any requirement of these
Regulations.
2. Work which—
(a) is not in a kitchen, or a special location;
(b) does not involve work on a special installation; and
(c) consists of—
(i) adding light fittings and switches to an existing circuit, or
(ii) adding socket outlets and fused spurs to an existing ring or radial circuit.
3. Work on—
(a) telephone wiring or extra-low voltage wiring for the purposes of communications,
information technology, signalling, control and similar purposes, where the wiring is
not in a special location;
(b) equipment associated with the wiring referred to in sub-paragraph (a);
(c) pre-fabricated equipment sets and associated flexible leads with integral plug and
socket connections.
4. For the purposes of this Schedule—
“kitchen” means a room or part of a room which contains a sink and food preparation
facilities;
“self-contained” in relation to a fixed building service means consisting of a single appliance
and any associated controls which is neither connected to, nor forms part of, any other fixed
building service;
“special installation” means an electric floor or ceiling heating system, an outdoor lighting or
electric power installation, an electricity generator, or an extra-low voltage lighting system
which is not a pre-assembled lighting set bearing the CE marking referred to in regulation 9 of
the Electrical Equipment (Safety) Regulations 1994(a);
“special location” means a location within the limits of the relevant zones specified for a bath,
a shower, a swimming or paddling pool or a hot air sauna in the Wiring Regulations,
seventeenth edition, published by the Institution of Electrical Engineers and the British
Standards Institution as BS 7671: 2008(b).
(a) S.I. 1994/3260.
(b) ISBN 978-0-86341-844-0.
50