(b) replace or renovate a thermal element in a building to which the energy efficiency
requirements apply;
(c) make a change to a building’s energy status; or
(d) make a material change of use.
(2) Subject to the following provisions of this regulation, a person to whom this regulation applies
shall—
(a) give to the local authority a building notice in accordance with regulation 13; or
(b) deposit full plans with the local authority in accordance with regulation 14.
(3) A person intending to carry out building work in relation to a building to which the Regulatory
Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005(a) applies, or will apply after the completion of the building work,
shall deposit full plans.
(4) A person intending to carry out building work which includes the erection of a building
fronting onto a private street shall deposit full plans.
(5) A person intending to carry out building work in relation to which paragraph H4 of Schedule 1
imposes a requirement shall deposit full plans.
(6) A person intending to carry out building work is not required to give a building notice or
deposit full plans where the work consists only of work—
(a) described in column 1 of the Table in Schedule 3 if the work is to be carried out by a
person described in the corresponding entry in column 2 of that Table; or
(b) described in Schedule 4.
(7) Where regulation 19 of the Building (Approved Inspectors etc) Regulations 2010(b) (local
authority powers in relation to partly completed work) applies, the owner shall comply with the
requirements of that regulation instead of with this regulation.
(8) Where—
(a) a person proposes to carry out building work which consists of emergency repairs;
(b) it is not practicable to comply with paragraph (2) before commencing the work; and
(c) paragraph (6) does not apply,
the person shall give a building notice to the local authority as soon as reasonably practicable after
commencement of the work.
(9) In this regulation—
“fronting” has the meaning given in section 203(3) of the Highways Act 1980(c); and
“private street” has the meaning given in section 203(2) of the Highways Act 1980(d).
Particulars and plans where a building notice is given
13.—(1) A building notice shall state the name and address of the person intending to carry out
the work and shall be signed by that person or on that person’s behalf, and shall contain or be
accompanied by—
(a) a statement that it is given for the purpose of regulation 12(2)(a);
(b) a description of the proposed building work, renovation or replacement of a thermal
element, change to the building’s energy status or material change of use; and
(c) particulars of the location of the building to which the proposal relates and the use or
intended use of that building.
(a) S.I. 2005/1541.
(b) S.I. 2010/2215.
(c) 1980 c. 66.
(d) Section 203(2) was amended by paragraph 45(11) of Schedule 2 to the Planning (Consequential Provisions) Act 1990 (c.11)
and Part 5 of Schedule 19 to the Planning and Compensation Act 1991 (c.34).
11