O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Section 12: Resisting fire spread over
external walls
Introduction
12.1 The external wall of a building should not provide a medium for fre spread if that is likely to be a risk
to health and safety. Combustible materials and cavities in external walls and attachments to them
can present such a risk, particularly in tall buildings. The guidance in this section is designed to reduce
the risk of fre spread as well as the risk of ignition from fames coming from adjacent buildings.
Fire resistance
12.2 This section provides guidance on resisting fre spread over external walls; however, it does not deal
with fre resistance of external walls. An external wall may need fre resistance to meet the provisions
of Section 2 (Design for horizontal escape), Section 3 (Design for vertical escape),
Section 7 (Loadbearing elements of structure), Section 13 (Resisting fre spread from one building
to another) or Section 17 (Access to buildings for frefghting personnel).
Combustibility of external walls
12.3 The external walls of buildings other than those described in regulation 7(4) of the Building
Regulations should achieve either of the following.
a. Follow the provisions given in paragraphs 12.5 to 12.10, which provide guidance on all of
the following.
i. External surfaces.
ii. Materials and products.
iii. Cavities and cavity barriers.
b. Meet the performance criteria given in BRE report BR 135 for external walls using full-scale test
data from BS 8414-1 or BS 8414-2.
12.4 In relation to buildings of any height or use, consideration should be given to the choice of materials
(including their extent and arrangement) used for the external wall, or attachments to the wall (e.g.
balconies, etc.), to reduce the risk of fre spread over the wall.
External surfaces
12.5 The external surfaces (i.e. outermost external material) of external walls should comply with the
provisions in Table 12.1. The provisions in Table 12.1 apply to each wall individually in relation to its
proximity to the relevant boundary.
94 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N