O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Section 4: Small premises
4.1 A ‘small premises’ is generally limited both in its size and in its number of occupants. When
undivided, all of its parts are likely to be clearly visible to occupants. Occupants of small premises
will be able to reach an exit quickly in an emergency and therefore a reduction in the number of
exits and stairs is acceptable.
This guidance is not applicable to small premises where highly flammable materials are sold, stored
or used.
4.2 Small premises should meet all of the following general conditions.
a. i. It should be single occupancy.
ii. It should not comprise more than a basement storey, ground storey and first storey.
iii. No storey should have a floor area more than 280m2.
b. Any kitchen or other open cooking arrangements should be at the extremity of any dead end
remote from the exits.
c. For a bar or restaurant, the seating or standing accommodation (Table D1) should be planned for
a maximum of 30 people per storey. The seating or standing accommodation for the ground
storey may be planned for 100 people if it has a final exit independent of the stair.
4.3 The following paragraphs only apply in place of those provisions elsewhere in this Approved
Document which relate to the following.
a. The number and position of exits and protected stairways.
b. Measuring distances of travel.
c. Open escape stairs.
For provisions other than those listed above, the guidance elsewhere in this Approved Document
should be followed.
Construction
4.4 Except in kitchens, ancillary offices and stores, floor areas should be undivided so exits are clearly
visible from all parts.
4.5 Store rooms should be enclosed with fire resisting construction (minimum REI 30).
Travel distance and number of escape routes
4.6 Escape routes should be sited so that the travel distance from any point of a storey to the nearest
storey exit does not exceed the distance given in Table 4.1 (see Diagrams 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3). The siting
of two or more exits or stairs should give effective alternative directions of travel from any point in
a storey.
42 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N