O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
5.13 Any door opening towards a corridor or a stair should be recessed to prevent its swing encroaching
on the effective width.
Vision panels in doors
5.14 Doors should contain vision panels in both of the following situations.
a. Where doors on escape routes divide corridors.
b. Where doors are hung to swing both ways.
Approved Document M contains guidance about vision panels in doors across accessible corridors
and Approved Document K contains guidance about the safety of glazing.
Revolving and automatic doors
5.15 Where revolving doors, automatic doors and turnstiles are placed across escape routes they should
comply with one of the following.
a. They are automatic doors of the required width and comply with one of the following conditions.
i. Their failsafe system provides outward opening from any open position.
ii. They have a monitored failsafe system to open the doors if the mains electricity supply fails.
iii. They failsafe to the open position if the power fails.
b. Non-automatic swing doors of the required width are provided immediately adjacent to the
revolving or automatic door or turnstile.
General provisions
Headroom in escape routes
5.16 Escape routes should have a minimum clear headroom of 2m. The only projections allowed below
this height are door frames.
Flooring of escape routes
5.17 Escape route floor finishes should minimise their slipperiness when wet. Finishes include the treads
of steps and surfaces of ramps and landings.
Ramps and sloping floors
5.18 A ramp forming part of an escape route should meet the provisions in Approved Document M. Any
sloping floor or tier should have a pitch of not more than 35 degrees to the horizontal.
5.19 Guidance for where there is fixed seating is given in both of the following.
a. Approved Documents K and M give guidance on the design of ramps and associated landings,
and on aisles and gangways where there is fixed seating.
b. Section 2 of this document refers to Annex D of BS 9999, which gives guidance on the design of
means of escape in places with fixed seating.
Final exits
5.20 The width of a final exit should be at least the same as the minimum required width of the escape
route it serves.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 49
O N L I N E V E R S I O N