O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Section 1: Fire detection and alarm systems
General provisions
1.1 All buildings should have arrangements for detecting fire and raising the alarm. In most buildings,
fires are detected by people, either by sight or smell, and therefore often nothing more is needed.
1.2 In some small buildings/premises, the means of raising the alarm may be simple (for example, a
shouted warning). In assessing appropriate solutions, warnings need to be heard and understood
throughout the premises.
Fire detection and alarm systems
1.3 Other than for some small buildings/premises, an electrically operated fire alarm system should be
provided. In some situations, the alarm should be operated by a fire detection system. The detailed
specification should be compatible with the fire strategy for the building.
NOTE: The term ‘fire alarm system’ describes the combination of components for giving an audible
and/or other perceptible warning of fire.
NOTE: In this document, the term ‘fire detection system’ describes any type of automatic sensor
network and associated control and indicating equipment. Sensors may be sensitive to smoke, heat,
gaseous combustion products or radiation. Automatic sprinkler systems can also be used to operate
a fire alarm system.
1.4 In ‘residential (institutional)’ and ‘residential (other)’ occupancies (purpose groups 2(a) and 2(b)),
automatic fire detection and alarms should be provided.
1.5 Automatic fire detection and alarm systems should be provided in non-residential occupancies
where a fire could break out in an unoccupied part of the premises (e.g. a storage area or a part of
the building that is not visited on a regular basis) and prejudice the means of escape from occupied
part(s) of the premises.
1.6 Automatic fire detection will also be necessary where fire protection systems, such as pressure
differential systems or door releases, need to operate automatically.
1.7 Every building design should be assessed individually. General guidance on the category of fire
detection system that may need to be provided within a building can be found in Table A1 of
BS 5839-1.
1.8 Where an electrically operated fire detection and alarm system is provided, it should comply
with BS 5839-1.
1.9 BS 5839-1 specifies three categories of system.
a. Category L – for the protection of life.
b. Category M – manual fire detection and alarm systems.
c. Category P – for property protection.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 9
O N L I N E V E R S I O N