O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Assembly buildings
0.13 Assembly buildings where a large number of people are present require additional considerations for
means of escape; for example, fixed seating may limit the ability of people to escape.
Guidance on fixed seating and other aspects of means of escape in assembly buildings is given in
Annex D of BS 9999.
For buildings to which the Safety of Sports Grounds Act 1975 applies, the Sports Grounds Safety
Authority’s Guide to Safety at Sports Grounds should also be followed.
Schools
0.14 The design of fire safety in schools is covered by Building Bulletin 100, which should be used.
Building Bulletin 100 contains fire safety provisions that are outside the scope of the Building
Regulations.
Prisons provided under section 33 of the Prisons Act 1952
0.15 Prisons are exempted from the functional requirements of Parts B1 to B5 of the Building Regulations
under section 33 of the Prisons Act 1952. It is usual that prisons should comply with the fire safety
requirements of the Building Regulations, except where the requirements are incompatible with safe
custody, good order or security.
HM Prison and Probation Service (HMPPS) provides guidance documents on fire precautions in
prisons, which take account of the public safety need to secure doors and exits while maintaining
life safety objectives.
The HMPPS Custodial Premises Fire Safety Design Guide (FSDG) is the design standard for fire safety
in prisons, providing structured guidance for those involved in the planning, designing or approval
of new or altered buildings.
Further guidance documents on fire safety in prisons are provided by HMPPS. These documents
may also be used for other places of lawful detention.
Buildings containing one or more atria
0.16 A building with an atrium that passes through compartment floors may need special fire safety
measures. Guidance is given in Annexes B and C of BS 9999.
Buildings of special architectural or historic interest
0.17 Where Part B applies to existing buildings, particularly buildings of special architectural or historic
interest for which the guidance in this document might prove too restrictive, some variation of the
provisions in this document may be appropriate. In such cases, it is appropriate to assess the hazard
and risk in the particular case and consider a range of fire safety features in that context.
Fire safety engineering
0.18 Fire safety engineering might provide an alternative approach to fire safety. Fire safety engineering
may be the only practical way to achieve a satisfactory standard of fire safety in some complex
buildings and in buildings that contain different uses.
Fire safety engineering may also be suitable for solving a specific problem with a design that
otherwise follows the provisions in this document.
0.19 BS 7974 and supporting published documents (PDs) provide a framework for and guidance on the
application of fire safety engineering principles to the design of buildings.
4 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N