O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Section 13: Resisting fire spread from one
building to another
Introduction
13.1 The following assumptions enable a reasonable standard of resistance to the spread of fire to
be specified.
a. The size of a fire depends on the compartmentation within the building. A fire may involve
a complete compartment, but will not spread to other compartments.
b. The intensity of fire is related to the building use, but can be moderated by a sprinkler system.
c. Fires in ‘residential’ and ‘assembly and recreation’ buildings (purposes groups 1, 2 and 5) represent
a greater risk to life.
d. A building on the far side of the relevant boundary meets both of the following conditions.
i. Has a similar elevation to the one in question.
ii. Is at the same distance from the common boundary.
e. The radiated heat passing through any part of the fire resisting external wall may be discounted.
13.2 Where regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over the provisions within this section.
13.3 If a reduced separation distance between buildings, or increased amount of unprotected area, is
required, smaller compartments should be considered.
Boundaries
13.4 The fire resistance of a wall depends on its distance from the relevant boundary (see Diagram 13.1).
Separation distances are measured to boundaries to ensure that the location and design of buildings
on adjoining sites have no influence on the building under consideration.
13.5 The boundary that a wall faces is the relevant boundary (Diagram 13.2). It may be one of the
following.
a. The site boundary.
b. The centre line of a space where further development is unlikely, such as a road, railway, canal or
river.
c. An assumed notional boundary between two buildings on the same site (Diagram 13.3) where
either of the following conditions is met.
i. One or both of the buildings are in the ‘residential’ or ‘assembly and recreation’ purpose
groups (purpose group 1, 2 or 5).
ii. The buildings will be operated/managed by different organisations.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 99
O N L I N E V E R S I O N