O N L I N E V E R S I O N
F C
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 171
C14 Recommendations for the specification, design, construction, installation and maintenance of fire
doorsets constructed with non-metallic door leaves are given in BS 8214.
Guidance on timber fire resisting doorsets, in relation to the new European test standard, may be
found in Timber Fire Resisting Doorsets: Maintaining Performance Under the New European Test
Standard published by the Timber Research and Development Association (TRADA).
Guidance for metal doors is given in Code of Practice for Fire Resisting Metal Doorsets published by
the Door and Shutter Manufacturers’ Association (DSMA).
C15 Hardware used on fire doors can significantly affect their performance in a fire. Notwithstanding the
guidance in this approved document, guidance is available in Hardware for Fire and Escape Doors
published by the Door and Hardware Federation (DHF) and Guild of Architectural Ironmongers (GAI).
Effective until 29 September 2026 – see 2026 amendment, page 169
Table C1 Provisions for fire doorsets
Position of door Minimum fire resistance of door Minimum fire resistance of
in terms of integrity (minutes) door in terms of integrity
when tested to the relevant (minutes) when tested to
European standard(1) BS 476-22
1. In a compartment wall separating buildings Same as for the wall in which Same as for the wall in which
the door is fitted, but a the door is fitted, but a
minimum of 60 minutes minimum of 60 minutes
2. In a compartment wall:
a. i f it separates a flat from a space in E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
common use
b. enclosing a protected shaft forming E 30 S(2) FD 30 S(2)
a
a stairway wholly or partly above the
adjoining ground in a building used for
flats, other residential, assembly and
recreation, or office purposes
c. e nclosing a protected shaft forming a Half the period of fire Half the period of fire
stairway not described in (b) above resistance of the wall in which resistance of the wall in
it is fitted, but 30 minutes which it is fitted, but 30
minimum and with suffix S(2) minutes minimum and with
a
suffix S(2)
d. e nclosing a protected shaft forming a lift Half the period of fire Half the period of fire
or service shaft resistance of the wall in which resistance of the wall in
it is fitted, but 30 minutes which it is fitted, but
minimum 30 minutes minimum
e. n ot described in (a), (b), (c) or (d) above. Same as for the wall in which Same as for the wall in which
it is fitted, but add S(2) if the it is fitted, but add S(2) if the
a
door is used for progressive door is used for progressive
horizontal evacuation under the horizontal evacuation under
guidance to requirement B1 the guidance to requirement
B1
3. In a compartment floor Same as for the floor in which Same as for the floor in
it is fitted which it is fitted
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 167
O N L I N E V E R S I O N