O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
d. Calcium silicate, cement-based or gypsum-based boards, a minimum of 12mm thick.
These do not necessarily achieve the performance specified in paragraph 9.13.
NOTE: Cavity barriers provided around openings may be formed by the window or door frame if
the frame is constructed of steel or timber of the minimum thickness in (a) or (b), as appropriate.
9.15 Cavity barriers should be tightly fitted to a rigid construction and mechanically fixed in position.
If this is not possible (e.g. where a cavity barrier joins to slates, tiles, corrugated sheeting or similar
materials) the junction should be fire-stopped.
9.16 Cavity barriers should be fixed so their performance is unlikely to be made ineffective by any of the
following.
a. Movement of the building due to subsidence, shrinkage or temperature change, and movement
of the external envelope due to wind.
b. During a fire, collapse of services penetrating the cavity barriers, either by the failure of the
supporting system or through degradation of the service itself (e.g. by melting or burning).
c. During a fire, failure of the cavity barrier fixings. (In roof spaces, where cavity barriers are fixed
to roof members, there is no expectation of fire resistance from roof members provided for the
purpose of support.)
d. During a fire, failure of any material or construction to which cavity barriers abut. (For example,
a suspended ceiling that continues over a fire resisting wall or partition collapses, and the
cavity barrier fails prematurely because the ceiling was not designed to provide a minimum fire
resistance of EI 30.)
Openings in cavity barriers
9.17 Openings should be limited to the following.
a. Fire doorsets with a minimum rating of E 30, fitted in accordance with Appendix C.
b. The passage of pipes that follow the provisions in Section 10.
c. The passage of cables or conduits containing one or more cables.
d. Openings fitted with a suitably mounted and appropriate fire damper.
e. Ducts that are either of the following.
i. Fire resisting (minimum E 30).
ii. Fitted with a suitably mounted and appropriate fire damper where they pass through the
cavity barrier.
9.18 If a cavity barrier is provided above or below a partition between bedrooms in ‘residential
(institutional)’ and ‘residential (other)’ (purpose groups 2(a) and 2(b)) buildings, and the partition is not
a fire resisting partition, then paragraph 9.17 does not apply. However, both of the following apply.
a. The number of openings in the barrier should be kept to a minimum.
b. Any penetrations should be sealed to restrict the passage of smoke with an appropriate
fire-stopping material.
NOTE: For further guidance on openings in cavity barriers see Section 10.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 81
O N L I N E V E R S I O N