O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Category L systems are divided into the following.
L1 – systems installed throughout the protected building.
L2 – systems installed only in defined parts of the protected building (a category L2 system will
normally include the coverage required of a category L3 system).
L3 – systems designed to warn of fire at an early enough stage to enable all occupants, other
than possibly those in the room where the fire started, to escape safely before the escape routes
become impassable because of fire, smoke or toxic gases.
L4 – systems installed within those parts of the escape routes that comprise circulation areas and
circulation spaces, such as corridors and stairs.
L5 – systems in which the protected area(s) and/or the location of detectors are designed to satisfy
a specific fire safety objective (other than that of a category L1, L2, L3 or L4 system).
Type P systems are divided into the following.
P1 – systems installed throughout the protected building.
P2 – systems installed only in defined parts of the protected building.
1.10 Electrical alarm system call points should comply with either of the following.
a. BS 5839-2.
b. BS EN 54-11 Type A (direct operation).
Call points should be installed in accordance with BS 5839-1.
Type B (indirect operation) call points of BS EN 54-11 should only be used with the approval of the
building control body.
1.11 A voice alarm system complying with BS 5839-8, and giving a fire warning different from other
signals in general use, may be considered if either of the following applies.
a. People might not respond quickly to a fire warning.
b. People are unfamiliar with the fire warning arrangements.
1.12 In premises where lots of members of the public are present, an initial general alarm may be
undesirable. Any fire alarm system that first alerts staff should comply with BS 5839-1.
1.13 Where the escape strategy is based on simultaneous evacuation, actuation of the fire alarm system
should give warning from all fire alarm sounders. Where phased evacuation is planned, a staged
alarm system is appropriate. See paragraph 3.21.
1.14 BS 9999 provides guidance for fire detection and alarm systems in buildings containing atria.
Warnings for people with impaired hearing
1.15 Clause 18 of BS 5839-1 gives detailed guidance on the design and selection of fire alarm warnings
for people with impaired hearing. In buildings or part of a building where people may be in relative
isolation, a visual and audible fire alarm may be the most appropriate solution. In buildings where
the population is managed, a vibrating personal paging system may be more appropriate.
10 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N