O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C B
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
B5 Tests and assessments should be carried out by organisations with the necessary expertise. For
example, organisations listed as ‘notified bodies’ in accordance with the European Construction
Products Regulation or laboratories accredited by the United Kingdom Accreditation Service (UKAS)
for the relevant test standard can be assumed to have the necessary expertise.
NOTE: Standard fire tests do not directly measure fire hazard. They measure or assess the response
of a material or system to exposure to one or more aspects of fire conditions. Performance in fire
tests is only one of a number of factors that should be taken into account.
Reaction to fire
B6 Reaction to fire relates to the degree to which a product will contribute, by its own decomposition,
to a fire under specified conditions. Products, other than floorings, are classified as A1, A2, B, C, D,
E or F (with class A1 being the highest performance and F being the lowest) in accordance with BS
EN 13501-1. Class F is assigned when a product fails to attain class E. Untested products cannot be
classified in accordance with BS EN 13501-1.
Materials covered by the Classification Without Further Testing (CWFT) process can be found by
accessing the European Commission’s website https://eur-lex.europa.eu/.
B7 The classes of reaction to fire performance of A2, B, C, D and E are accompanied by additional
classifications related to the production of smoke (s1, s2, s3), with s1 indicating the lowest
production, and/or flaming droplets/particles (d0, d1, d2), with d0 indicating the lowest production.
NOTE: When a classification includes s3, d2 this means that there is no limit set for smoke
production and/or flaming droplets/particles.
B8 To reduce the testing burden on manufacturers, BS EN 13238 defines a number of standard
substrates that produce test results representative of different end use applications. The
classification for reaction to fire achieved during testing is only valid when the product is used
within this direct field of application, i.e. when the product is fixed to a substrate of that class in
its end use. The standard substrate selected for testing should take account of the intended end
use applications (field of application) of the product and represent end use substrates that have a
density of a minimum of 75% of the standard substrate’s nominal density.
B9 Standard substrates include gypsum plasterboard (BS EN 520) with a density of 700+/-100kg/m3,
calcium silicate board (BS EN 14306) 870+/-50kg/m3 and fibre-cement board 1800+/-200kg/m3.
NOTE: Standard calcium silicate board is not representative of gypsum plasterboard end use (due
to the paper layer), but would be representative of most gypsum plasters (with densities of more
than 650kg/m3).
NOTE: Classifications based on tests using a plasterboard substrate would also be acceptable for
products bonded to a gypsum plaster end use substrate.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 153
O N L I N E V E R S I O N