O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Material change of use
12.18 Regulations 5(k) and 6(3) provide that, where the use of a building is changed such that the building
becomes a building described in regulation 7(4), the construction of the external walls, and specifed
attachments, must be investigated and, where necessary, work must be carried out to ensure they
only contain materials achieving class A2-s1, d0 or class A1, other than those exempted by regulation
7(3).
Solar shading devices
12.19 Regulation 7(2) requires that the curtain and or slats of solar shading devices in a relevant building (as
defned in regulation 7(4)) achieve class A1 or A2-s1, d0. The curtain of solar shading devices cannot be
classifed as a membrane in accordance with regulation 7(3).
12.20 Solar shading devices installed up to 4.5m above ground level are not required to meet the
requirements of regulation 7(2).
Additional considerations
12.21 The provisions of regulation 7 apply in addition to requirement B4. Therefore, for buildings described
in regulation 7(4), the potential impact of any products incorporated into or onto the external
walls and specifed attachments should be carefully considered with regard to their number, size,
orientation and position.
12.22 Particular attention is drawn to the following points.
a. Membranes used as part of the external wall construction above ground level should achieve a
minimum of class B-s3, d0. Roofng membranes do not need to achieve a minimum of class A2-s1,
d0 when used as part of a roof connecting to an external wall.
b. Internal linings should comply with the guidance provided in Section 4.
c. Any part of a roof should achieve the minimum performance as detailed in Section 12.
d. As per regulation 7(3), window frames and glass (including laminated glass) are exempted from
regulation 7(2). Window spandrel panels and infll panels must comply with regulation 7(2).
e. Thermal breaks are small elements used as part of the external wall construction to restrict
thermal bridging. There is no minimum performance for these materials. However, they should
not span two compartments and should be limited in size to the minimum required to restrict
the thermal bridging (the principal insulation layer is not to be regarded as a thermal break).
f. Regulation 7(2) only applies to specifed attachments. Shop front signs and similar attachments
are not covered by the requirements of regulation 7(2), although attention is drawn to paragraph
12.22g.
g. While regulation 7(2) applies to materials which become part of an external wall or specifed
attachment, consideration should be given to other attachments to the wall which could impact
on the risk of fre spread over the wall.
h. Any material achieving class A1f or A2f-s1 in accordance with BS EN 13501-1 is exempted when it
meets both of the following conditions.
i. It forms the top horizontal foor layer of a balcony.
ii. It is provided with an imperforate substrate under it which extends to the full size of the
class A1f or A2f-s1 material.
98 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N