O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
f. A factory comprising no more than either of the following.
i. For low risk buildings, two storeys above the ground storey.
ii. For normal risk buildings, one storey above the ground storey, provided the travel distance
from every point on each storey does not exceed the distances given in Table 2.1 for escape
in one direction only.
g. Process plant buildings with a maximum of 10 people.
Provision of refuges
3.4 Refuges form part of the management plan and offer relatively safe areas for people to wait for a
short period only. Refuges should meet the following conditions.
a. Refuges should be provided on every storey (except ones consisting only of plant rooms) of
each protected stairway providing an exit from that storey.
b. Refuges do not need to be located within the stair enclosure, but should enable direct access to
the stair.
c. The number of refuge spaces does not need to equal the number of wheelchair users who
may be in the building. A single refuge may be occupied by more than one person during the
evacuation procedure.
3.5 The following are both examples of satisfactory refuges.
a. An enclosure such as a compartment (Diagram 3.1), protected lobby, protected corridor or
protected stairway (Diagram 3.2).
b. An area in the open air, such as a flat roof, balcony, podium or similar place, that meets both of
the following.
i. It is protected (or remote) from any fire risk.
ii. It has its own means of escape.
3.6 Refuges should be a minimum of 900mm × 1400mm in size and accessible by someone in a
wheelchair. Where sited in a protected stairway, protected lobby or protected corridor, they should
not reduce the width of the escape route or obstruct the flow of people escaping.
3.7 Refuges should be provided with an emergency voice communication (EVC) system complying
with BS 5839-9. It should consist of Type B outstations communicating with a master station in the
building control room (if one exists) or next to the fire detection and alarm panel. In some buildings,
wireless technology may be more appropriate.
3.8 Refuges and evacuation lifts should be clearly identified. In protected lobbies and protected
stairways there should be a blue mandatory sign worded ‘Refuge – keep clear’ in addition to fire
safety signs.
3.9 Paragraph 5.32 gives guidance on using lifts, including evacuation lifts, during a fire.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 29
O N L I N E V E R S I O N