O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Access lobbies and corridors
3.34 In the following situations, protected lobbies or protected corridors should be provided at all
storeys above ground, except the top storey.
a. If the stair is the only one serving a building or part of a building that has more than one storey
above or below the ground storey.
b. If the stair serves any storey at a height of 18m or more above ground level.
c. If the building is designed for phased evacuation.
d. If the stair is a firefighting stair.
e. If the option in paragraph 3.15b has been used so as not to discount one stair when calculating
stair widths.
As an alternative to (a) to (c), a smoke control system as described in paragraph 3.15a may be used.
3.35 A protected lobby should be provided between an escape stair and a place of special fire hazard
to protect from the ingress of smoke. The lobby should have a minimum 0.4m2 of permanent
ventilation, or be protected by a mechanical smoke control system.
Exits from protected stairways
3.36 Every protected stairway should lead to a final exit, either directly or via an exit passageway.
Any protected exit corridor or stair should have the same standard of fire resistance and lobby
protection as the stair it serves. The exit from a protected stairway should comply with paragraphs
5.20 to 5.24.
Separation of adjoining protected stairways
3.37 The construction separating two adjacent protected stairways (or exit passageways) leading to
different final exits should be imperforate.
Use of space within protected stairways
3.38 A protected stairway may only include any of the following.
a. Sanitary accommodation or washrooms, as long as the accommodation is not used as
a cloakroom. A gas water heater or sanitary towel incinerator may be installed in the
accommodation, but no other gas appliance.
b. If the protected stairway is not a firefighting stair: a lift well.
c. If the protected stairway is not the only stair serving the building or part of the building: a
reception desk or enquiry office area at ground or access level. The reception or enquiry office
area should have a maximum area of 10m2.
d. If the protected stairway is not the only stair serving the building or part of the building:
cupboards enclosed with fire resisting construction.
40 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N