O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A A
Common balcony A walkway, open to the air on Element of structure Any of the following.
one or more sides, that forms part of the escape
• A member that forms part of the structural
route from more than one flat.
frame of a building, or any other beam or
Common stair An escape stair that serves more column.
than one flat.
• A loadbearing wall or loadbearing part of a wall.
Compartment (fire) A building or part of a building,
• A floor.
comprising one or more rooms, spaces or storeys,
that is constructed to prevent the spread of fire • A gallery (but not a loading gallery, fly
to or from another part of the same building or an gallery, stage grid, lighting bridge, or any
adjoining building. gallery provided for similar purposes or for
maintenance and repair).
NOTE: A roof space above the top storey of a
compartment is included in that compartment. (See • An external wall.
also ‘Separated part’.)
• A compartment wall (including a wall that is
Compartment wall or floor A fire resisting wall common to two or more buildings).
or floor to separate one fire compartment from
NOTE: However, see the guidance to requirement
another. B3, paragraph 7.3, for a list of structures that are not
NOTE: Provisions relating to construction are given considered to be elements of structure.
in Section 8.
Emergency lighting Lighting for use when the
Corridor access A design of a building containing power supply to the normal lighting fails.
flats, in which each flat is approached via a common
Escape lighting The part of the emergency lighting
horizontal internal access or circulation space, which
that is provided to ensure that the escape route is
may include a common entrance hall.
illuminated at all material times.
Curtain Part of a solar shading device which is set
Escape route The route along which people can
in motion by the operating system and fulfils the
escape from any point in a building to a final exit.
purpose of a blind, awning or shutter.
Evacuation lift A lift that may be used to evacuate
Dead end An area from which escape is possible in
people in a fire.
one direction only.
2026 amendment – effective
Direct distance The shortest distance from any
from 30 September 2026
point within the floor area to the nearest storey
exit, measured within the external enclosures of the Evacuation lift lobby An area protected from fire
building, and ignoring walls, partitions and fittings and smoke ingress by fire resisting construction and
other than the enclosing walls and partitions to smoke control measures, providing direct access
protected stairways. to an evacuation lift, where a person can wait for a
lift service in relative safety while an evacuation is
*Dwelling Includes a dwellinghouse and a flat.
underway.
NOTE: A dwelling is a unit where one or more
Evacuation shaft A protected shaft containing a
people live (whether or not as a sole or main
protected stairway, an evacuation lift (together
residence) in either of the following situations.
with its machine room) and evacuation lift lobbies.
• A single person or people living together as a
family. Exit passageway A protected passageway that
connects a protected stairway to a final exit.
• A maximum of six people living together as
a single household, including where care is NOTE: Exit passageways should be protected to the
provided for residents. same standard as the stairway they serve.
*Dwellinghouse Does not include a flat or a
building containing a flat.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 133
O N L I N E V E R S I O N