O N L I N E V E R S I O N
D
Table D1 Floor space factors(1)
Type of accommodation(2)(3) Floor space factor (m2/person)
1. S tanding spectator areas, bar areas (within 2m of serving point), similar 0.3
refreshment areas
2. Amusement arcade, assembly hall (including a general purpose place of 0.5
assembly), bingo hall, club, crush hall, dance floor or hall, venue for pop
concerts and similar events and bar areas without fixed seating
3. Concourse or queuing area(4) 0.7
4. Committee room, common room, conference room, dining room, licensed 1.0
betting office (public area), lounge or bar (other than in (1) above), meeting
room, reading room, restaurant, staff room or waiting room(5)
5. Exhibition hall or studio (film, radio, television, recording) 1.5
6. Skating rink 2.0
7. Shop sales area(6) 2.0
8. Art gallery, dormitory, factory production area, museum or workshop 5.0
9. Office 6.0
10. Shop sales area(7) 7.0
11. Kitchen or library 7.0
12. Bedroom or study-bedroom 8.0
13. Bed-sitting room, billiards or snooker room or hall 10.0
14. Storage and warehousing 30.0
15. Car park Two persons per parking space
NOTES:
1. A s an alternative to using the values in the table, the floor space factor may be determined by reference to actual
data taken from similar premises. Where appropriate, the data should reflect the average occupant density at a
peak trading time of year.
2. W here accommodation is not directly covered by the descriptions given, a reasonable value based on a similar use
may be selected.
3. W here any part of the building is to be used for more than one type of accommodation, the most onerous
factor(s) should be applied. Where the building contains different types of accommodation, the occupancy of
each different area should be calculated using the relevant space factor.
4. F or detailed guidance on appropriate floor space factors for concourses in sports grounds refer to Concourses
published by the Football Licensing Authority.
5. A lternatively the occupant number may be taken as the number of fixed seats provided, if the occupants will
normally be seated.
6. S hops excluding those under item 10, but including: supermarkets and department stores (main sales areas), shops
for personal services, such as hairdressing, and shops for the delivery or collection of goods for cleaning, repair or
other treatment or for members of the public themselves carrying out such cleaning, repair or other treatment.
7. S hops (excluding those in covered shopping complexes but including department stores) trading predominantly
in furniture, floor coverings, cycles, prams, large domestic appliances or other bulky goods, or trading on a
wholesale self-selection basis (cash and carry).
176 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N