O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Enclosure of corridors that are not protected corridors
2.25 If a corridor is used for a means of escape but is not a protected corridor, even though the
enclosing partitions may have no fire resistance, both of the following should be met to inhibit the
spread of smoke.
a. Partitions should continue to the soffit of the structural floor above, or to a suspended ceiling.
b. Openings into rooms from the corridor should be fitted with doors, which do not need to be
fire doorsets.
Open planning will not inhibit the spread of smoke, but occupants can become aware of a fire quickly.
Division of corridors
2.26 A corridor providing access to alternative escape route should be divided by fire doorsets fitted
with a self-closing device (and associated screens) where both of the following apply.
a. It is more than 12m long.
b. It connects two or more storey exits.
The fire doorsets (including any screens) should be approximately mid-way between the two storey
exits. They should safeguard the route from smoke, while considering the layout of the corridor and
any adjacent fire risks.
2.27 For buildings other than dwellings (purpose groups 2 to 7): if a cavity exists above the enclosures to
a corridor as described above (because the enclosures are not carried to full storey height or the
underside of the roof covering at the top storey), the potential for smoke to bypass the enclosure
should be restricted by one of the following methods.
a. Method 1 – Fitting cavity barriers on the line of the enclosure(s) to and across the corridor
(Diagram 2.9).
b. Method 2 – Dividing the storey using fire resisting construction that passes through the line of
the division of the corridor (Diagram 2.9). Any cavity above this division should be fitted with
cavity barriers on the line of division of the storey and the corridor.
c. Method 3 – Enclosing the cavity on the lower side by a fire resisting ceiling that extends
throughout the building, compartment or separated part.
Any door that could provide a path for smoke to bypass the division should be fitted with a self-
closing device (but need not necessarily be fire resisting).
22 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N