O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Additional guidance
7.4 If a loadbearing wall is any of the following, guidance in other sections may also apply.
a. A compartment wall (including a wall common to two buildings): Section 8.
b. Enclosing a place of special fire hazard: Section 8, paragraph 8.7.
c. Protecting a means of escape: Sections 2 to 5.
d. An external wall: Sections 12 and 13.
e. Enclosing a firefighting shaft: Section 17.
7.5 If a floor is also a compartment floor, see Section 8.
Raised storage areas
7.6 The normal provisions for fire resistance may be too onerous to apply to raised, free-standing floors
(sometimes supported by racking) in single storey buildings used for industrial and storage purposes.
The introduction of raised storage areas can alter the effective number of storeys in the building
(see the definition of ‘storey’ in Appendix A).
7.7 A structure that does not have the minimum fire resistance specified in Appendix B, Table B2,
is acceptable if it satisfies all of the following conditions.
a. The structure meets both of the following conditions.
i. It has only one tier.
ii. It is used for storage purposes only.
b. The people likely to be on the floor at any one time are both of the following.
i. Few in number.
ii. Not members of the public.
c. The floor is open above and below to the room or space in which it is situated.
d. The means of escape from the floor is in accordance with Sections 2 to 5.
e. The floor meets both of the following conditions.
i. It is not more than 10m in width or length.
ii. It is a maximum of half the floor area of the space in which it is situated.
The limitations in (e) may be adjusted if any of the following apply.
f. If the lower level has an automatic fire detection and alarm system meeting the
recommendations of BS 5839-1, then the floor size may be increased to not more than 20m in
either width or length.
g. If agreed with the building control body and the fire and rescue service, then it may be possible
to vary this dimension and area. However, the safety of firefighters and the distance they may
need to travel over or under the floor must be considered.
h. If the building is fitted throughout with an automatic sprinkler system complying with Appendix
E, then no limits are set for the size of the floor.
64 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N