O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Escape over flat roofs
2.31 Where a storey or part of a building has multiple escape routes available, one may be over a flat
roof if it does not serve a ‘residential (institutional)’ (purpose group 2(a)) building, or part of a
building intended for use by members of the public.
2.32 Where an escape route over a flat roof is provided, the roof should comply with all of the following.
a. It should be part of the same building from which escape is being made.
b. The route across the roof should lead to a storey exit or external escape route.
c. The part of the roof forming the escape route and its supporting structure, together with any
opening within 3m of the escape route, should be fire resisting (minimum REI 30).
d. The route should be clearly defined and guarded by walls and/or protective barriers to protect
from falling.
Residential care homes
General provisions
2.33 The choice of fire safety strategy depends on the way a building is designed, furnished, staffed and
managed, and on the level of dependency of the residents.
2.34 In care homes for the elderly, some or all residents are likely to need help to evacuate. Buildings
should generally be designed for progressive horizontal evacuation (PHE) in accordance with
paragraphs 2.35 to 2.46.
For other care home types, the most appropriate of either a PHE or simultaneous evacuation
strategy should be identified. The approach adopted in the design of a building must be recorded
and communicated to the building management team, who can adopt procedures compatible with
the building design.
Planning for progressive horizontal evacuation
2.35 The guidance below on PHE is for care homes where the provisions of the Firecode documents do
not apply (see paragraph 0.10).
PHE requires areas used for the care of residents to be divided into protected areas by
compartment walls and compartment floors. Protected areas provide a place of relative safety, from
which further evacuation can be made if necessary.
2.36 Each storey used for the care of residents should be divided by compartment walls into at least
three protected areas. All floors should be compartment floors.
2.37 Every protected area should have a minimum of two exits to adjoining protected areas. Maximum
travel distances within a protected area should be both of the following.
a. To the exit to the adjoining protected area: as shown in Table 2.1.
b. From any point to a storey exit or a final exit: 64m.
2.38 A fire in one protected area should not prevent occupants of other areas from reaching a final
exit (Diagram 2.11). Escape routes should not pass through ancillary accommodation listed in
paragraph 2.44.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 25
O N L I N E V E R S I O N