O N L I N E V E R S I O N
E C
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 171
Appendix C: Fire doorsets
C1 All fire doorsets should have the performance shown in Table C1, based on one of the following.
a. Fire resistance in terms of integrity, for a period of minutes, when tested to BS 476-22, e.g. FD 30.
A suffix (S) is added for doorsets where restricted smoke leakage at ambient temperatures is needed.
b. As determined with reference to Commission Decision 2000/367/EC regarding the classification
of the resistance to fire performance of construction products, construction works and parts
thereof. All fire doorsets should be classified in accordance with BS EN 13501-2, tested to the
relevant European method from the following.
i. BS EN 1634-1.
ii. BS EN 1634-2.
iii. BS EN 1634-3.
c. As determined with reference to European Parliament and Council Directive 95/16/EC (which
applies to lifts that permanently serve buildings and constructions and specified safety
components) on the approximation of laws of Member States relating to lifts (‘Lifts Directive’)
implementing the Lifts Regulations 1997 (SI 1997/831) and calling upon the harmonised standard
BS EN 81-58.
C2 The performance requirement is in terms of integrity (E) for a period of minutes. An additional
classification of S is used for all doors where restricted smoke leakage at ambient temperatures is
a
needed.
C3 The requirement is for test exposure from each side of the doorset separately. The exception is lift
doors, which are tested from the landing side only.
C4 Any test evidence used to verify the fire resistance rating of a doorset or shutter should be checked
to ensure both of the following.
a. It adequately demonstrates compliance.
b. It is applicable to the complete installed assembly. Small differences in detail may significantly
affect the rating.
Until relevant harmonised product standards are published, for the purposes of meeting the
Building Regulations, products tested in accordance with BS EN 1634-1 (with or without pre-fire
test mechanical conditioning) that achieve the minimum performance in Table C1 will be deemed
to satisfy the provisions.
C5 All fire doorsets, including to flat entrances and between a dwellinghouse and an integral garage,
should be fitted with a self-closing device, except for all of the following.
a. Fire doorsets to cupboards.
b. Fire doorsets to service ducts normally locked shut.
c. Fire doorsets within flats and dwellinghouses.
C6 If a self-closing device would be considered to interfere with the normal approved use of the
building, self-closing fire doors may be held open by one of the following.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 165
O N L I N E V E R S I O N