O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
ii. Operable from the side approached by people escaping.
iii. Operable without a key.
iv. Operable without requiring people to manipulate more than one mechanism.
Doors may be fitted with hardware to allow them to be locked when rooms are empty.
In places such as hotel bedrooms, locks may be fitted that are key operated from the outside and
manually opened from the inside.
If a secure door is operated by code or combination keypad, swipe or proximity card, biometric data,
etc., a security mechanism override should be possible from the side approached by people escaping.
5.8 Electrically powered locks should return to the unlocked position in all of the following situations.
a. If the fire detection and alarm system operates.
b. If there is loss of power or system error.
c. If the security mechanism override is activated.
Security mechanism overrides for electrically powered locks should be a Type A call point as
described in BS 7273-4. The call point should be positioned on the side approached by people
escaping. If the door provides escape in either direction, a call point should be installed on both
sides of the door.
5.9 In places of assembly and shop and commercial buildings (purpose groups 4 and 5), doors on escape
routes from rooms with more than 60 people should be either of the following.
a. Not fitted with locks, latches or bolts.
b. Fitted with panic fastenings in accordance with BS EN 1125.
In non-residential buildings (purpose groups 3 to 7), some final exit doors feature security locks
that are used only when the building is empty. Such locks may be appropriate, but management
procedures must emphasise their safe use.
5.10 Guidance on door closing and ‘hold open’ devices for fire doorsets is set out in Appendix C.
Direction of opening
5.11 The door of any doorway or exit should be hung to open in the direction of escape whenever
reasonably practicable. It should always be hung to open in the direction of escape if either of the
following conditions applies.
a. More than 60 people might be expected to use it during a fire.
b. There is a very high risk of fire with potential for rapid fire growth, such as with some
industrial activities.
Amount of opening and effect on associated escape routes
5.12 All doors on escape routes should be hung to meet both of the following conditions.
a. Open by a minimum of 90 degrees.
b. Open with a swing that complies with both of the following.
i. Is clear of any change of floor level, other than a threshold or single step on the line
of the doorway.
ii. Does not reduce the effective width of any escape route across a landing.
48 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N