O N L I N E V E R S I O N
R38
Section 19: Fire safety information
19.1 For building work involving the erection or extension or a change of use of a relevant building (i.e.
a building to which the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 or the Building Safety Act 2022
applies, or will apply), fire safety information should be given to the relevant dutyholder (responsible
person or accountable person) at one of the following times, whichever is the earlier.
a. When the project is complete.
b. When the building or extension is first occupied.
19.2 This section is a guide to the information that should be provided and is not exhaustive. Guidance
is in terms of essential information and additional information for complex buildings; however, the
level of detail required should be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Essential information
19.3 The essential information provided should be sufficient to enable the relevant dutyholder to
understand, operate and maintain the building (including the fire safety systems in it). It should
make it clear how the fire safety arrangements of the building are intended to operate together.
In cases where a fire safety strategy has been prepared (e.g. as part of the design and construction
process for a building or building work), then this should be made available to the relevant
dutyholder.
19.4 Information on the location of fire protection measures may be sufficient. An as-built plan of the
building should be provided showing all of the following.
a. Escape routes – this should include exit capacity (i.e. the maximum allowable number of people
for each storey and for the building).
b. Fire resisting construction and location of fire-separating elements (including cavity barriers in
walk-in spaces).
c. Fire doorsets, fire doorsets fitted with a self-closing device and other doors relevant to the fire
safety strategy, such as doors equipped with relevant hardware.
d. Locations of fire detector heads (e.g. heat and smoke detectors), manual call points, fire alarm
control and indicating equipment, fire alarm sounders, fire safety signage, emergency lighting,
fire extinguishers, dry or wet fire mains and other firefighting equipment, and hydrants outside
the building.
e. Any sprinkler systems, including isolating valves and control equipment.
f. Any smoke control systems, or ventilation systems with a smoke control function, including
mode of operation and control systems.
128 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N