B5
Diagram 17.2 Provision of firefighting shafts
120 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
m81
>
m01
>
m5.7
>
O N L I N E V E R S I O N
See para 17.2
Buildings in which firefighting shafts should be provided,
showing which storeys need to be served
a. Any building b. Any building c. ‘Shop and d. Any building
commercial’,
The upper storeys The basement The basement
‘assembly and
in any building storeys in any storeys in any
recreation’ and
with a storey more building with a building with two
than 18m above basement more ‘industrial’ or more
fre service vehicle than 10m below buildings (purpose basements each
access level fre service vehicle groups 4, 5 and 6) exceeding 900m²
access level
The upper storeys in
purpose groups 4, 5 and 6
buildings with a storey of
900m2 or more which is
more than 7.5m above fre
service vehicle access level
Fire
service
vehicle
access
level
Two or more
basement storeys
each exceeding
900m²
NOTES:
1. Height excludes any top storey(s) consisting
Extent of Extent of
exclusively of plant rooms.
frefghting frefghting
stair lift
2. Firefghting shafts should serve all foors
through which they pass.
Location of firefighting shafts
17.7 Firefighting shafts and protected stairways should be positioned such that every part of each storey
more than 18m above the fire and rescue service vehicle access level complies with the maximum
distances given in paragraph 17.8. Distances should be measured from the fire main outlet on a route
suitable for laying a hose.
NOTE: If the internal layout is not known, the distance should be measured at two-thirds of the
direct distance.
17.8 In any building, the hose laying distance should meet all of the following conditions.
a. A maximum of 60m from the fire main outlet in a firefighting shaft (see Diagram 17.3).
b. Additionally, where sprinklers have not been provided in accordance with Appendix E, the
hose laying distance should be a maximum of 45m from a fire main outlet in a protected shaft
(although this does not imply that the protected shaft needs to be designed as a firefighting
shaft (see Diagram 17.3).
O N L I N E V E R S I O N