O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A
*External wall The external wall of a building leaves, essential hardware, edge seals and glazing,
includes all of the following. and any integral side panels or fanlight panels in
an associated door screen.
• Anything located within any space forming
part of the wall. Firefighting lift A lift with additional protection
and with controls that enable it to be used by the
• Any decoration or other finish applied to any
fire and rescue service when fighting a fire. (See
external (but not internal) surface forming part
Section 17.)
of the wall.
Firefighting lobby A protected lobby that
• Any windows and doors in the wall.
provides access from a firefighting stair to the
• Any part of a roof pitched at an angle of more
accommodation area and to any associated
than 70 degrees to the horizontal if that part of
firefighting lift.
the roof adjoins a space within the building to
Firefighting shaft A protected enclosure that
which persons have access, but not access only
contains a firefighting stair, firefighting lobbies
for the purpose of carrying out repairs or main-
and, if provided, a firefighting lift together with its
tenance.
machine room.
Final exit The end of an escape route from a
Firefighting stair A protected stairway that
building that gives direct access to a street,
connects to the accommodation area through only
passageway, walkway or open space, and is sited to
a firefighting lobby.
ensure that people rapidly disperse away from the
building so that they are no longer in danger from Fire resisting (Fire resistance) The ability of a
fire and/or smoke. component or a building to satisfy, for a stated
period of time, some or all of the appropriate
NOTE: Windows are not acceptable as final exits.
criteria given in the relevant standard.
Fire alarm system Combination of components for
Fire-separating element A compartment wall,
giving an audible and/or other perceptible warning
compartment floor, cavity barrier and construction
of fire.
that encloses a protected escape route and/or a
Fire damper A mechanical or intumescent device
place of special fire hazard.
within a duct or ventilation opening that operates
Fire-stop (Fire-stopping) A seal provided to close
automatically and is designed to resist the spread
an imperfection of fit or design tolerance between
of fire.
elements or components, to restrict the spread of
Fire and smoke damper A fire damper which, in
fire and smoke.
addition to the performance of the fire damper,
*Flat A flat is a separate and self-contained
resists the spread of smoke.
premises constructed or adapted for use for
Fire doorset A door or shutter which, together
residential purposes and forming part of a building
with its frame and furniture as installed in a
from some other part of which it is divided
building, is intended (when closed) to resist
horizontally.
the spread of fire and/or gaseous products of
Gallery A floor or balcony that does not extend
combustion and meets specified performance
across the full extent of a building’s footprint and
criteria to those ends.
is open to the floor below.
NOTE: A fire doorset may have one or more
Habitable room A room used, or intended to
leaves. The term includes a cover or other form of
be used, for people to live in (including, for the
protection to an opening in a fire resisting wall or
purposes of Approved Document B Volumes 1 and
floor, or in a structure that surrounds a protected
2, a kitchen, but not a bathroom).
shaft. A fire doorset is a complete door assembly,
assembled on site or delivered as a completed Height (of a building or storey for the purposes of
assembly, consisting of the door frame, leaf or Approved Document B Volumes 1 and 2)
134 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N