O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Openings in compartmentation
Openings in compartment walls separating buildings or occupancies
8.30 Openings in a compartment wall common to two or more buildings, or between different
occupancies in the same building, should be limited to those for either of the following.
a. A fire doorset providing a means of escape, which has the same fire resistance as the wall and is
fitted in accordance with the provisions in Appendix C.
b. The passage of a pipe that complies with the provisions in Section 10.
Openings in other compartment walls or in compartment floors
8.31 Openings should be limited to those for any of the following.
a. Fire doorsets fitted in accordance with the provisions in Appendix C.
b. Pipes, ventilation ducts, service cables, chimneys, appliance ventilation ducts or ducts encasing
one or more flue pipes, complying with the provisions in Section 10.
c. Refuse chutes of class A1 construction.
d. Atria designed in accordance with Annexes B and C of BS 9999.
e. Protected shafts that conform to the provisions in the following paragraphs.
Protected shafts
8.32 Any stair or other shaft passing directly from one compartment to another should be enclosed
in a protected shaft. Protected shafts should be used for the following only, but may also include
sanitary accommodation and washrooms.
a. Stairs.
b. Lifts.
c. Escalators.
d. Chutes.
e. Ducts.
f. Pipes.
g. Additional provisions apply for both of the following.
i. Protected shafts that are protected stairways: Sections 2 to 5.
ii. Stairs that are also firefighting stairs: Section 17.
Construction of protected shafts
8.33 The construction enclosing a protected shaft (Diagram 8.3) should do all of the following.
a. Form a complete barrier to fire between the compartments connected by the shaft.
b. Have the appropriate fire resistance given in Appendix B, Table B1, except for uninsulated glazed
screens that meet the provisions of paragraph 8.34.
c. Satisfy the provisions for ventilation and the treatment of openings in paragraphs 8.38 and 8.39.
72 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N