O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B2
Requirement B2: Internal fire spread (linings)
This section deals with the following requirement from Part B of Schedule 1 to the Building
Regulations 2010.
Requirement
Requirement Limits on application
Internal fre spread (linings)
B2. (1) To inhibit the spread of fire within the building,
the internal linings shall— ➊
(a) adequately resist the spread of flame over
their surfaces; and
(b) have, if ignited, either a rate of heat release
or a rate of fire growth, which is reasonable in
the circumstances.
(2) In this paragraph “internal linings” means the
materials or products used in lining any partition,
wall, ceiling or other internal structure.
Intention
In the Secretary of State’s view, requirement B2 is met by achieving a restricted spread of flame
over internal linings. The building fabric should make a limited contribution to fire growth,
including a low rate of heat release.
It is particularly important in circulation spaces, where linings may offer the main means by which ➋
fire spreads and where rapid spread is most likely to prevent occupants from escaping.
Requirement B2 does not include guidance on the following.
a. Generation of smoke and fumes.
b. The upper surfaces of floors and stairs.
c. Furniture and fittings.
Key
➊
The law: extract from the Building Regulations 2010.
➋
Statutory guidance.
Diagram i T he relationship between regulations and guidance in the approved documents
For further information about the use of technical guidance, see Chapter 7 in Volume 1 and Chapter F
in Volume 2 of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
Where to get further help
If you are unsure whether you have the knowledge and skills to apply the guidance correctly, or if you
do not understand the technical guidance or other information in this approved document or the
additional detailed technical references to which it directs you, you should seek further help. Some
sources of help are listed below.
a. Your building control body may be able to help in many cases.
b. If you are registered with a competent person scheme, the scheme operator should be in a
position to help.
c. Suitably qualifed and experienced construction professionals should also be engaged where necessary.
iv Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N