O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Construction of escape stairs
3.24 The flights and landings of escape stairs should be constructed of materials achieving class A2-s3, d2
or better in all of the following situations.
a. If the escape stair is the only stair serving the building or part of the building, unless the building
has two or three storeys and is an office building.
b. If the escape stair is within a basement storey.
c. If the escape stair serves any storey that has a floor level more than 18m above ground or access
level.
d. If the escape stair is external, except where the stair connects the ground floor or ground level
with a floor or flat roof a maximum of 6m above or below ground level.
e. If the escape stair is a firefighting stair.
Materials achieving class B-s3, d2 or worse may be added to the top horizontal surface, except on
firefighting stairs.
3.25 Further guidance on firefighting stairs is given in Section 17. Dimensional constraints on the design of
stairs are given in Approved Document K.
Single steps
3.26 Single steps on escape routes should be prominently marked. A single step on the line of a doorway
is acceptable, subject to paragraph 5.22.
Helical stairs and spiral stairs
3.27 Helical stairs and spiral stairs may form part of an escape route provided they are designed in
accordance with BS 5395-2. If they are intended to serve members of the public, stairs should be
type E (public) stairs.
Fixed ladders
3.28 Fixed ladders should not be provided as a means of escape for members of the public. They should
only be provided where a conventional stair is impractical, such as for access to plant rooms which
are not normally occupied.
External walls adjacent to protected stairways
3.29 With some configurations of external wall, a fire in one part of a building could subject the external
wall of a protected stairway to heat (for example, where the two are adjacent at an internal angle in
the façade, as shown in Diagram 3.3).
3.30 If a protected stairway projects beyond, is recessed from or is in an internal angle of the adjoining
external wall of the building, then the minimum distance between an unprotected area of the
building enclosure and an unprotected area of the stair enclosure should be 1800mm.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 37
O N L I N E V E R S I O N