O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A
• Height of a building is measured as shown in Pipe Includes pipe fittings and accessories. The
Appendix D, Diagram D4. definition of ‘pipe’ excludes a flue pipe and a
pipe used for ventilating purposes, other than
• Height of the floor of the top storey above
a ventilating pipe for an above-ground drainage
ground level is measured as shown in Appendix
system.
D, Diagram D6.
Place of special fire hazard A room such as any of
Inner room Room from which escape is possible
the following.
only by passing through another room (the access
room). • Oil-filled transformer room.
• Switch gear room.
2026 amendment – effective
from 30 September 2026 • Boiler room.
Interlocked stair Two interlocking protected • Storage space for fuel or other highly
stairways providing two separate paths of egress flammable substance(s).
within one protected shaft or separated protected
• Room that houses a fixed internal combustion
shafts. These are also sometimes referred to as
engine.
scissor stairs or stacked stairs.
Platform floor (also called an access or raised floor) A
Live/work unit A flat that is a workplace for floor that is supported by a structural floor, but with
people who live there, its occupants, and for an intervening cavity to house services.
people who do not live on the premises.
Protected circuit An electrical circuit that is
Means of escape Structural means that provide protected against fire.
one or more safe routes for people to go, during
Protected corridor/lobby A corridor or lobby that
a fire, from any point in the building to a place of
is adequately protected from fire in adjoining areas
safety.
by fire resisting construction.
Measurement
Protected entrance hall/landing A circulation
• Width of a doorway, cubic capacity, area, area, consisting of a hall or space in a flat, that is
height of a building and number of storeys are enclosed with fire resisting construction other than
measured as shown in Appendix D, Diagrams D1 an external wall of a building.
to D6.
Protected shaft A shaft that enables people, air
• Occupant number, travel distance, escape or objects to pass from one compartment to
route and stairs are measured as described in another, and which is enclosed with fire resisting
Appendix D, paragraphs D1 to D4. construction.
Notional boundary A boundary presumed to exist Protected stairway A stair that leads to a final
between two buildings on the same site. exit to a place of safety and that is adequately
enclosed with fire resisting construction. Included
Open spatial planning The internal arrangement of
in the definition is any exit passageway between
a building in which more than one storey or level is
the foot of the stair and the final exit.
contained in one undivided volume, e.g. split-level
floors. For the purposes of this document there is Purpose group A classification of a building
a distinction between open spatial planning and an according to the purpose to which it is intended
atrium space. to be put. (See Table 0.1.)
Perimeter (of a building) The maximum aggregate Relevant boundary The boundary or notional
plan perimeter, found by vertical projection onto a boundary that one side of the building faces and/
horizontal plane. (See Section 15.) or coincides with, and that is parallel or at an angle
of a maximum of 80 degrees to that side of the
building.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 135
O N L I N E V E R S I O N