O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Flues, etc.
10.23 The wall of a flue, duct containing flues or appliance ventilation duct(s) should have a fire resistance
(REI) that is at least half of any compartment wall or compartment floor it passes through or is built
into (Diagram 10.4).
See para 10.23
a. Flue passing through compartment wall or floor b. Flue built into compartment wall
Compartment
wall or foor
Flue Compartment Compartment
wall wall
Flue wall
Flue walls should have a fre resistance of at least In each case fue walls should have a fre resistance of at least
one half of that required for the compartment wall one half of that required for the compartment wall and be of
or foor and be of class A1 construction. class A1 construction.
Diagram 10.4 Flues penetrating compartment walls or floors
Fire‑stopping
10.24 In addition to any other provisions in this section, both of the following conditions should be met.
a. Joints between fire-separating elements should be fire-stopped.
b. Openings through a fire resisting element for pipes, ducts, conduits or cable should be all of the
following.
i. As few as possible.
ii. As small as practicable.
iii. Fire-stopped (allowing thermal movement in the case of a pipe or duct).
NOTE: The fire-stopping around fire dampers, fire resisting ducts, fire and smoke dampers and
smoke control ducts should be in accordance with the manufacturer or supplier’s installation
instructions.
10.25 Materials used for fire-stopping should be reinforced with (or supported by) materials rated class
A2-s3, d2 or better to prevent displacement in both of the following cases.
a. Where the unsupported span is greater than 100mm.
b. Where non-rigid materials are used (unless subjected to appropriate fire resistance testing to
show their suitability).
10.26 Proprietary, tested fire-stopping and sealing systems are available and may be used. Different
materials suit different situations and not all are suitable in every situation.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 87
O N L I N E V E R S I O N