O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
C11 Except for doorsets listed in paragraph C12, all fire doorsets should be marked with one of the
following fire safety signs, complying with BS 5499-5, as appropriate.
a. To be kept closed when not in use – mark ‘Fire door keep shut’.
b. To be kept locked when not in use – mark ‘Fire door keep locked shut’.
c. Held open by an automatic release mechanism or free swing device – mark ‘Automatic fire
door keep clear’.
C12 The following fire doorsets are not required to comply with paragraph C11.
a. Doors to and within flats and dwellinghouses.
b. Bedroom doors in ‘residential (other)’ (purpose group 2(b)) premises.
c. Lift entrance/landing doors.
C13 The performance of some doorsets set out in Table C1 is linked to the minimum periods of fire
resistance for elements of structure given in Tables B1 and B2. Limitations on the use of uninsulated
glazing in fire doorsets are given in Table B3.
C14 Recommendations for the specification, design, construction, installation and maintenance of fire
doorsets constructed with non-metallic door leaves are given in BS 8214.
Guidance on timber fire resisting doorsets, in relation to the new European test standard, may be
found in Timber Fire Resisting Doorsets: Maintaining Performance Under the New European Test
Standard published by the Timber Research and Development Association (TRADA).
Guidance for metal doors is given in Code of Practice for Fire Resisting Metal Doorsets published
by the Door and Shutter Manufacturers’ Association (DSMA).
C15 Hardware used on fire doors can significantly affect their performance in a fire. Notwithstanding
the guidance in this approved document, guidance is available in Hardware for Fire and Escape
Doors published by the Door and Hardware Federation (DHF) and Guild of Architectural
Ironmongers (GAI).
Table C1 Provisions for fire doorsets
Position of doorset Minimum fire resistance of doorset in terms of
integrity (minutes) when tested and classified to the
relevant European standard(1) or assessed following the
recommendations of paragraph B1 to B5 and C1(2)
1. In a compartment wall separating buildings Same as for the wall in which the door is fitted, but a
minimum of 60 minutes
2. In a compartment wall:
a. if it separates a flat from a space in common 30 minutes S (3)
a
use
b. e nclosing a protected shaft forming a stairway 30 minutes S (3)
a
or an evacuation shaft wholly or partly above
the adjoining ground in a building used for
flats, other residential, assembly and recreation,
or office purposes
c. enclosing a protected shaft forming a stairway Half the period of fire resistance of the wall in which it is
or an evacuation shaft not described in (b) fitted, but 30 minutes minimum and with suffix S (3)
a
above
d. enclosing a protected shaft forming a lift or Half the period of fire resistance of the wall in which it is
service shaft fitted, but 30 minutes minimum
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 173
O N L I N E V E R S I O N