O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
5.21 People should be able to rapidly leave the area around the building. Direct access to a street,
passageway, walkway or open space should be available. The route away from the building should
comply with the following.
a. Be well defined.
b. If necessary, have suitable guarding.
5.22 Final exits should not present a barrier for disabled people. Where the route to a final exit does not
include stairs, a level threshold and, where necessary, a ramp should be provided.
5.23 Final exit locations should be clearly visible and recognisable.
5.24 Final exits should avoid outlets of basement smoke vents and openings to transformer chambers,
refuse chambers, boiler rooms and similar risks.
Table 5.1 Provisions for escape lighting
Use of the building or part of the building Areas requiring escape lighting
Residential All common escape routes(1), except in two storey blocks of flats
Office, industrial, storage and other non- a. Underground or windowless accommodation
residential
b. Stairs either:
• in a central core
• that serve storey(s) more than 18m above ground level
c. Internal corridors more than 30m long
d. Open-plan areas of more than 60m2
Shop and commercial, and car parks a. Underground or windowless accommodation
b. Stairs either:
• in a central core
• that serve storey(s) more than 18m above ground level
c. Internal corridors more than 30m long
d. Open-plan areas of more than 60m2
e. A ll escape routes (other than the following exception) to which
the public are admitted.(1) The exception is shops that meet all of
the following:
• have a maximum of three storeys
• have no sales floor of more than 280m2
• are not a restaurant or bar
Assembly and recreation a. All escape routes(1)
b. A ccommodation except for that which is open on one side to
view sport or entertainment during normal daylight hours
Any purpose group a. All toilet accommodation with a minimum floor area of 8m2
b. Electricity and generator rooms
c. Switch room/battery room for emergency lighting system
d. Emergency control rooms
NOTE:
1. Including external escape routes.
50 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N