O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Access to storey exits
2.14 Where a storey has more than one escape stair, it should be planned so that it is not necessary to
pass through one stair to reach another. However, it would be acceptable to pass through one stair’s
protected lobby to reach another stair.
Separation of circulation routes from protected stairways
2.15 Where they serve protected stairways that are part of primary circulation routes, self-closing
fire doors should be fitted with an automatic release mechanism, to avoid them being rendered
ineffective by misuse. Otherwise, the stair (and any associated exit passageway) should not form
part of the primary circulation route between different parts of the building at the same level.
Storeys divided into different uses
2.16 If a storey contains areas for consuming food and/or drink, and where that is not the main use of
the building, then both of the following apply.
a. A minimum of two escape routes should be provided from each area, except from inner rooms
that meet the conditions in paragraph 2.11.
b. Those escape routes should lead directly to a storey exit without entering a kitchen or similar
area of high fire hazard.
Storeys divided into different occupancies
2.17 Where a storey is divided into areas of occupancy under separate ownership or tenancy, then both
of the following apply.
a. The means of escape from each occupancy should not pass through any other occupancy.
b. If a common corridor or circulation space is on the escape route, one of the following
should apply.
i. It should be a protected corridor.
ii. A suitable automatic fire detection and alarm system should be installed throughout
the storey.
Width of escape routes and exits
2.18 The width of escape routes and exits should meet the provisions in Table 2.3, as well as the
guidance in Approved Document M.
2.19 If the maximum number of people likely to use the escape route and exit is not known, it should be
calculated using the occupant number guidance in Appendix D.
2.20 Guidance on the spacing of fixed seating for auditoria is given in Annex D of BS 9999.
18 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N