O N L I N E V E R S I O N
R38
g. Any high risk areas (e.g. heating machinery).
h. Any power supplies or power generating installations.
i. The location of secure information boxes.
19.5 Details should be provided of all of the following.
a. Specifications of fire safety equipment provided, including routine maintenance schedules.
b. Any assumptions regarding the management of the building in the design of the fire safety
arrangements.
c. Any provision enabling the evacuation of disabled people, which can be used when designing
personal emergency evacuation plans.
d. Information for care homes should include the assessment for the number of beds in a
compartment, as this should set out the expected number of staff and level of assistance of
residents (see paragraph 2.39).
Additional information for complex buildings
19.6 A detailed record should be provided of both of the following.
a. The fire safety strategy.
b. Procedures for operating and maintaining any fire protection measures. This should include an
outline cause and effect matrix/strategy for the building.
Further guidance is available in clause 9 and Annex H of BS 9999.
19.7 The records should include details of the following.
a. The fire safety strategy, including all assumptions in the design of the fire safety systems (such
as fire load). Any risk assessments or risk analysis.
b. All assumptions in the design of the fire safety arrangements for the management of the
building.
c. All of the following.
i. Escape routes (including occupant load and capacity of escape routes).
ii. Any provision to enable the evacuation of disabled people (including the location and
mode of operation of evacuation lifts).
iii. Escape strategy (e.g. simultaneous or phased).
iv. Assembly points and/or muster stations.
d. All passive fire safety measures, including all of the following.
i. Compartmentation.
ii. Fire-separating elements.
iii. Fire resisting construction.
iv. Cavity barriers.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 129
O N L I N E V E R S I O N