O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Section 5: General provisions
Introduction
5.1 This section applies to all buildings and deals with the design, construction and protection of escape
routes and service installations.
Protection of escape routes
Fire resistance of enclosures
5.2 Fire resistance test criteria are set out in Appendix B. Standards of performance are summarised in
Table B1 and Table B2. Apart from specific situations described in Sections 1 and 2, and requirements
B3 and B5, a minimum performance of REI 30 is sufficient to protect means of escape.
Fire resistance of doors
5.3 Fire resistance test criteria are set out in Appendix C. Standards of performance are summarised in
Table C1.
Fire resistance of glazed elements
5.4 If glazed elements in fire resisting enclosures and doors can only meet the required integrity
performance, their use is limited. These limitations depend on whether the enclosure forms part of
a protected shaft (see Section 8) and the provisions set out in Appendix B, Table B3. If both integrity
and insulation performance can be met, there is no restriction in this document on the use or
amount of glass.
5.5 Glazed elements should also comply with the following, where necessary.
a. If the enclosure forms part of a protected shaft: Section 8.
b. Appendix B, Table B3.
c. Guidance on the safety of glazing: Approved Document K.
Doors on escape routes
5.6 Doors should be readily openable to avoid undue delay to people escaping. Doors on escape routes
(both within and from the building) should comply with paragraphs 5.7 to 5.15. Guidance on door
closing and ‘hold open’ devices for fire doorsets is set out in Appendix C.
Door fastenings
5.7 In general, doors on escape routes (whether or not the doors are fire doorsets) should be either
of the following.
a. Not fitted with a lock, latch or bolt fastenings.
b. Fitted only with simple fastenings that are all of the following.
i. Easy to operate; it should be apparent how to undo the fastening.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 47
O N L I N E V E R S I O N