O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Provision of cavity barriers
9.2 To reduce the potential for fire spread, cavity barriers should be provided for both of the following.
a. To divide cavities.
b. To close the edges of cavities.
See Diagram 9.1. Cavity barriers should not be confused with fire-stopping details (Section 10).
Pathways around fire‑separating elements
Junctions and edges of cavities
9.3 Cavity barriers should be provided at all of the following locations.
a. At the edges of cavities, including around openings (such as windows, doors and exit/entry
points for services).
b. At the junction between an external cavity wall and every compartment floor and compartment
wall.
c. At the junction between an internal cavity wall and every compartment floor, compartment wall
or other wall or door assembly forming a fire resisting barrier.
This does not apply where a wall meets the conditions of Diagram 9.2.
9.4 It is not appropriate to complete a line of compartment walls by fitting cavity barriers above them.
The compartment wall should extend to the underside of the floor or roof above.
Protected escape routes
9.5 If the fire resisting construction of a protected escape route is either of the following.
a. Not carried to full storey height.
b. At the top storey, not carried to the underside of the roof covering.
Then the cavity above or below the fire resisting construction should be either of the following.
i. Fitted with cavity barriers on the line of the enclosure.
ii. For cavities above the fire resisting construction, enclosed on the lower side by a fire resisting
ceiling (minimum EI 30) that extends throughout the building, compartment or separated part
(see Diagram 9.3).
Cavities affecting alternative escape routes
9.6 In divided corridors, cavity barriers may be needed to prevent alternative escape routes being
affected by fire and/or smoke (see paragraph 2.27 and Diagram 2.9).
Separation of bedrooms in ‘residential (institutional)’ and ‘residential
(other)’ buildings
9.7 Where a cavity exists above or below a partition between bedrooms because the enclosure is not
carried to full storey height or to the underside of the roof covering, the guidance in paragraph 9.5
should be followed.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 77
O N L I N E V E R S I O N