O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Sprinklers
8.14 Buildings within the ‘office’, ‘shop and commercial’, ‘assembly and recreation’, ‘industrial’ and ‘storage
and other non-residential’ (except car parks for light vehicles) purpose groups (purpose groups 3
to 7(a)) require sprinklers where there is a top storey above 30m. The sprinkler system should be
provided in accordance with Appendix E.
Construction of compartment walls and compartment floors
General provisions
8.15 All compartment walls and compartment floors should achieve both of the following.
a. Form a complete barrier to fire between the compartments they separate.
b. Have the appropriate fire resistance, as given in Appendix B, Table B1 and Table B2.
8.16 Timber beams, joists, purlins and rafters may be built into or carried through a masonry or concrete
compartment wall if the openings for them are both of the following.
a. As small as practicable.
b. Fire-stopped.
If trussed rafters bridge the wall, failure of the truss due to a fire in one compartment should not
cause failure of the truss in another compartment.
8.17 Where services could provide a source of ignition, the risk of fire developing and spreading into
adjacent compartments should be controlled.
Compartment walls between buildings
8.18 Adjoining buildings should only be separated by walls, not floors. Compartment walls common to
two or more buildings should comply with both of the following.
a. Run the full height of the building in a continuous vertical plane.
b. Be continued through any roof space to the underside of the roof.
Separated parts of buildings
8.19 Compartment walls forming a separated part of a building should run the full height of the building
in a continuous vertical plane.
Separated parts can be assessed independently to determine the appropriate standard of fire
resistance in each. The two separated parts can have different standards of fire resistance.
Other compartment walls
8.20 Compartment walls not described in paragraphs 8.18 and 8.19 should run the full height of the storey
in which they are situated.
8.21 Compartment walls in a top storey beneath a roof should be continued through the roof space.
Junction of compartment wall or compartment floor with other walls
8.22 At the junction with another compartment wall or an external wall, the fire resistance of the
compartmentation should be maintained. Fire-stopping that meets the provisions in paragraphs 10.24
to 10.29 should be provided.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 69
O N L I N E V E R S I O N