O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
8.23 At the junction of a compartment floor and an external wall with no fire resistance, the external
wall should be restrained at floor level. The restraint should reduce movement of the wall away
from the floor if exposed to fire.
8.24 Compartment walls should be able to accommodate deflection of the floor, when exposed to fire,
by either of the following means.
a. Between the wall and floor, provide a head detail that is capable of maintaining its integrity
while deforming.
b. Design the wall so it maintains its integrity by resisting the additional vertical load from the floor
above.
Where compartment walls are located within the middle half of a floor between vertical supports,
the deflection may be assumed to be 40mm unless a smaller value can be justified by assessment.
Outside this area, the limit can be reduced linearly to zero at the supports.
For steel beams that do not have the required fire resistance, reference should be made to SCI
Publication P288.
Junction of compartment wall with roof
8.25 A compartment wall should achieve both of the following.
a. Meet the underside of the roof covering or deck, with fire-stopping to maintain the continuity
of fire resistance.
b. Be continued across any eaves.
8.26 To reduce the risk of fire spreading over the roof from one compartment to another, a 1500mm
wide zone of the roof, either side of the wall, should have a covering classified as B (t4), on a
ROOF
substrate or deck of a material rated class A2-s3, d2 or better, as set out in Diagram 8.2a.
Thermoplastic rooflights that, because of paragraph 14.7, are regarded as having a B (t4)
ROOF
classification are not suitable for use in that zone.
8.27 Materials achieving class B-s3, d2 or worse used as a substrate to the roof covering and any timber
tiling battens, fully bedded in mortar or other suitable material for the width of the wall (Diagram
8.2b), may extend over the compartment wall in buildings that are both of the following.
a. A maximum of 15m high.
b. In one of the following purpose groups.
i. All residential purpose groups (purpose groups 1 and 2) other than ‘residential (institutional)’
(purpose group 2(a)).
ii. ‘Office’ (purpose group 3).
iii. ‘Assembly and recreation’ (purpose group 5).
8.28 Double-skinned insulated roof sheeting should incorporate a band of material rated class A2-s3, d2
or better, a minimum of 300mm in width, centred over the wall.
8.29 As an alternative to the provisions of paragraph 8.26 or 8.27, the compartment wall may extend
through the roof for a minimum of either of the following (see Diagram 8.2c).
a. Where the height difference between the two roofs is less than 375mm, 375mm above the top
surface of the adjoining roof covering.
b. 200mm above the top surface of the adjoining roof covering where either of the following applies.
i. The height difference between the two roofs is 375mm or more.
ii. The roof coverings either side of the wall are of a material classified as B (t4).
ROOF
70 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N