O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Access control measures
2.8 Measures to restrict access to the building (or parts of it) should not adversely affect fire safety
provisions. It may be reasonable to close some escape routes outside normal business hours, but
measures should remain to safely evacuate people left inside the building (see paragraph 5.6).
Number of occupants and exits
2.9 The building design should be based on the number of occupants. If the number is not known, use
the appropriate floor space factors (Appendix D).
Table 2.2 gives the minimum number of escape routes and exits from a room or storey for different
numbers of occupants. This number is likely to be increased by the need to observe travel distances
and other practical considerations.
The width of escape routes and exits is given in paragraph 2.18.
Table 2.2 Minimum number of escape routes and exits from a room, tier or storey
Maximum number of people Minimum number of escape routes/exits
60 1
600 2
More than 600 3
Alternative escape routes
2.10 Alternative escape route should satisfy one of the following criteria.
a. They are in directions 45 degrees or more apart (Diagram 2.2).
b. They are in directions less than 45 degrees apart, but separated from each other by fire resisting
construction.
See para 2.10
A B Alternative escape routes are available from C because angle ACB
is 45 degrees or more and therefore distance CA or CB (whichever
E
is the less) should be no more than the maximum travel distance
given for alternative escape routes.
> 45° < 45° Alternative escape routes are not available from D because angle
D ADB is less than 45 degrees (therefore see Diagram 2.1).
C
There is also no alternative escape route from E.
Diagram 2.2 A lternative escape routes
Inner rooms
2.11 An inner room is at risk if a fire starts in the access room (Diagram 2.3). Such an arrangement should
only be accepted if all of the following conditions are satisfied.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 15
O N L I N E V E R S I O N