O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Non‑residential buildings
8.11 In buildings in a non-residential purpose group (purpose groups 3 to 7), the following should be
compartment walls and compartment floors.
a. Every wall needed to divide the building to observe the compartment size limits in Table 8.1
(Diagram 8.1a).
b. Every floor, if the building or separated part of the building (see paragraph 8.19) has a top storey
that is more than 30m above ground level (Diagram 8.1b).
c. The floor of the ground storey, if the building has one or more basements (Diagram 8.1c), except
in small premises (see paragraph 4.2).
d. The floor of every basement storey (except the lowest floor), if the building or separated part
has a basement more than 10m below ground level (Diagram 8.1d).
e. If the building comprises ‘shop and commercial’, ‘industrial’ or ‘storage’ premises (purpose groups
4, 6, 7): every wall or floor dividing a building into separate occupancies (spaces used by different
organisations, whether they fall within the same purpose group or not).
f. See also the provision in paragraph 5.46 for store rooms in shops to be separated from retail
areas by fire resisting construction (minimum REI 30).
8.12 In two storey ‘shop and commercial’ or ‘industrial’ buildings (purpose groups 4 or 6), where the use of
the upper storey is ancillary to the use of the ground storey, the ground storey may be treated as a
single storey building for fire compartmentation purposes where all of the following apply.
a. The area of the upper storey does not exceed the lower of:
i. 20% of the area of the ground storey
ii. 500m2.
b. The upper storey is compartmented from the lower one.
c. The upper storey has a means of escape independent of the lower storey escape routes.
Every place of special fire hazard (see Appendix E) should be enclosed with fire resisting
construction.
Buildings containing one or more atria
8.13 Detailed advice on atria in buildings is given in Annexes B and C of BS 9999. For the purposes
of this document, BS 9999 applies only where the atrium breaches a compartment.
66 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N