O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B B
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 152
Appendix B: Performance of materials,
products and structures
Introduction
B1 Much of the guidance in this document is given in terms of performance classifications in relation
to British or European Standards. In such cases, it will be necessary to demonstrate that a system
or product can meet the relevant performance classification. This will be achieved if the system or
product complies with one of the following.
a. They should be in accordance with a specification or design that has been shown by specific
test(s) to be capable of meeting that performance classification.
b. They should have been designed by using relevant design standards in order to meet that
performance classification.
c. They should have been assessed by applying relevant test evidence, in lieu of carrying out a
specific test, as being capable of meeting that performance classification.
NOTE: Some products are subject to Classification Without Further Testing (CWFT). For the
purposes of this approved document, such products can be considered to have been shown to be
capable of meeting a performance specification as per paragraph B1a.
B2 Any test evidence used to demonstrate the fire performance classification of a product or system
should be carefully checked to ensure that it is applicable to the intended use. Small differences in
detail, such as fixing method, joints, dimensions, the introduction of insulation materials and air gaps
(ventilated or not), might significantly affect the performance and should be tested or assessed in
accordance with paragraph B1.
B3 Assessments should not be regarded as a way to avoid a test where one is necessary. Assessments
should only be carried out where sufficient relevant test evidence is available. Relevant test
evidence is unlikely to be provided by test standards which have different classification criteria.
B4 Where it is proposed to assess the classification of a product or system in lieu of carrying out a
specific test (as in paragraph B1c), this should be done in accordance with the relevant standard for
extended application for the test in question and should include details of the test evidence that
has been used to support the assessment.
For performance classifications where there is no specific standard for extended application,
assessment reports should be produced in accordance with the principles of BS EN 15725 and
should include details of the test evidence that has been used to support the assessment. In
cases where the end use application is not covered by the extended application standard and
an assessment is the only other suitable approach, then further information on best practice is
provided in the Passive Fire Protection Forum’s Guide to Undertaking Technical Assessments of the
Fire Performance of Construction Products Based on Fire Test Evidence. The same principle should
be followed for assessments as described in paragraph B2.
NOTE: Regulation 7(2) limits components used in or on the external walls of certain buildings to
materials achieving class A2-s1, d0 or class A1 (see Section 12). Assessments cannot be used to
demonstrate compliance with this requirement.
138 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N