O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Section 7: Loadbearing elements of structure
Fire resistance standard
7.1 Elements of structure such as structural frames, beams, columns, loadbearing walls (internal and
external), foor structures and gallery structures should have, as a minimum, the fre resistance given
in Appendix B, Table B1.
7.2 Appendix B includes guidance on all of the following.
a. Provisions to ensure that where one element of structure supports or stabilises another
element of structure, the supporting element has no less fire resistance than the other element
(see Table B2).
b. Measures so that elements common to more than one building or compartment are constructed
to the standard of the more onerous of the relevant provisions.
c. Special provisions about fire resistance of elements of structure in single storey buildings.
d. Concessions in respect of fire resistance of elements of structure in basements where one or
more sides of the basement are open at ground level.
Exclusions from the provisions for elements of structure
7.3 The following are excluded from the definition of ‘element of structure’.
a. A structure that supports only a roof, unless either of the following applies.
i. The roof performs the function of a floor, such as for parking vehicles, or as a means
of escape.
ii. The structure is essential for the stability of an external wall that needs to be fire
resisting (e.g. to achieve compartmentation or for the purposes of preventing fire spread
between buildings).
b. The lowest floor of the building.
c. A platform floor.
d. A loading gallery, fly gallery, stage grid, lighting bridge or any gallery provided for similar purposes
or for maintenance and repair.
e. External walls, such as curtain walls or other forms of cladding, which transmit only self weight
and wind loads and do not transmit floor load.
NOTE: In some cases, structural members within a roof may be essential for the structural stability
system of the building. In these cases, the structural members in the roof do not just support a roof
and must demonstrate the relevant fire resistance for the building as required by paragraph 7.2a above.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 63
O N L I N E V E R S I O N