O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
Appendix C: Fire doorsets
C1 All fire doorsets should have the performance shown in Table C1, based on one of the following.
a. Fire doorsets should be classified in accordance with BS EN 13501-2, as determined with
reference to Commission Decision 2000/367/EC regarding the classification of the resistance
to fire performance of construction products, construction works and parts thereof, when
tested to the relevant European method from the following.
i. BS EN 1634-1.
ii. BS EN 1634-2.
iii. BS EN 1634-3.
b. Fire doorsets may have their performance on fire resistance assessed, following the
recommendations of paragraphs B1 to B5, as being capable of meeting a performance
classification. In those situations the performance classifications given in Table C1 may be used,
presented in terms of integrity, for a period of minutes, when tested to a relevant standard.
c. As determined with reference to European Parliament and Council Directive 95/16/EC (which
applies to lifts that permanently serve buildings and constructions and specified safety
components) on the approximation of laws of Member States relating to lifts (‘Lifts Directive’)
implementing the Lifts Regulations 1997 (SI 1997/831) and calling upon the harmonised standard
BS EN 81-58.
C2 The performance requirement is in terms of integrity (E) for a period of minutes. An additional
classification of S is used for all doors where restricted smoke leakage at ambient temperatures is
a
needed.
C3 The requirement is for test exposure from each side of the doorset separately. The exception is lift
doors, which are tested from the landing side only.
C4 Any test evidence used to verify the fire resistance rating of a doorset or shutter should be
checked to ensure both of the following.
a. It adequately demonstrates compliance.
b. It is applicable to the complete installed assembly. Small differences in detail might
significantly affect the rating and should be tested or assessed in accordance with paragraphs
B1 to B5.
Until relevant harmonised product standards are published, for the purposes of meeting
the Building Regulations, products or systems tested in accordance with BS EN 1634-1 (with
or without pre-fire test mechanical conditioning) or assessed as being capable of meeting a
performance classification based on the recommendations of paragraphs B1 to B5 that achieve
the minimum performance in Table C1 will be deemed to satisfy the provisions.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 171
O N L I N E V E R S I O N