O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Table 0.1 Continued
Title Group Purpose for which the building or compartment of a building is intended to be used
Storage and 7(a) Either of the following:
other non-
• place (other than described under 7(b)) for the storage or deposit of goods or
residential(4)
materials
• any building not within purpose groups 1 to 6.
7(b) Car parks designed to admit and accommodate only cars, motorcycles and passenger or
light goods vehicles that weigh a maximum of 2500kg gross.
NOTES:
This table only applies to Part B.
See Approved Document B Volume 1 for guidance on dwellings (purpose group 1).
1. Includes live/work units that meet the provisions of Approved Document B Volume 1, paragraph 3.24.
2. Includes any surgeries, consulting rooms, offices or other accommodation that meets all of the following
conditions.
a. A maximum of 50m2 in total.
b. Part of a dwellinghouse.
c. Used by an occupant of the dwellinghouse in a professional or business capacity.
3. Where very large (over 18m in height or with a 10m deep basement) or unusual dwellinghouses are proposed,
some of the guidance for buildings other than dwellings may be needed.
4. All of the following are included in purpose group 1(c).
a. A detached garage a maximum of 40m2 in area.
b. A detached open carport a maximum of 40m2 in area.
c. A detached building that consists of a garage and open carport, each a maximum of 40m2 in area.
Mixed use buildings
0.23 This approved document includes reference to selected guidance for dwellings. For the design of
mixed use buildings which include dwellings, Approved Document B Volume 1 should be consulted
in addition to the guidance contained in this approved document.
0.24 Where a complex mix of uses exists, the effect that one use may have on another in terms of
risk should be considered. It could be necessary to use guidance from both volumes, apply other
guidance (such as from HTM 05-02 or Building Bulletin 100), and/or apply special measures to reduce
the risk.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 7
O N L I N E V E R S I O N