O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A A
Appendix A: Key terms
NOTE: Except for the items marked * (which Basement storey A storey with a floor that, at some
are from the Building Regulations 2010), these point, is more than 1200mm below the highest level
definitions apply only to Approved Document B. of ground beside the outside walls. (However, see
Appendix B, paragraph B26c, for situations where
NOTE: The terms defined below are key terms
the storey is considered to be a basement only
used in this document only. Refer to BS 4422 for
because of a sloping site.)
further guidance on the definitions of common
terms used in the fire safety industry which are not Boundary The boundary of the land that belongs to
listed below. a building, or, where the land abuts a road, railway,
canal or river, the centre line of that road, railway,
Access room A room that the only escape route
canal or river.
from an inner room passes through.
*Building Any permanent or temporary building
Alternative escape routes Escape routes that are
but not any other kind of structure or erection. A
sufficiently separated by direction and space or by
reference to a building includes a reference to part
fire resisting construction to ensure that one is still
of a building.
available if the other is affected by fire.
Building control body A term that includes both
NOTE: A second stair, balcony or flat roof which
local authority building control and approved
enables a person to reach a place free from danger
inspectors.
from fire is considered an alternative escape route
for the purposes of a dwellinghouse. Cavity A space enclosed by elements of a building
(including a suspended ceiling) or contained within
Alternative exit One of two or more exits, each of
an element, but that is not a room, cupboard,
which is separate from the other.
circulation space, protected shaft, or space within a
Appliance ventilation duct A duct to deliver flue, chute, duct, pipe or conduit.
combustion air to a gas appliance.
Cavity barrier A construction within a cavity, other
Atrium (plural atria) A continuous space that passes than a smoke curtain, to perform either of the
through one or more structural floors within a following functions.
building, not necessarily vertically.
• Close a cavity to stop smoke or flame entering.
NOTE: Enclosed lift wells, enclosed escalator wells,
• Restrict the movement of smoke or flame
building services ducts and stairs are not classified
within a cavity.
as atria.
Ceiling Part of a building that encloses a room,
Automatic release mechanism A device that
protected shaft or circulation space and is exposed
normally holds a door open, but closes it
overhead.
automatically if any one of the following occurs.
NOTE: The soffit of a rooflight, but not the frame,
• Smoke is detected by an automatic device of a
is included as part of the surface of the ceiling. An
suitable nature and quality in a suitable location.
upstand below a rooflight is considered as a wall.
• A hand-operated switch, fitted in a suitable
Circulation space A space (including a protected
position, is operated.
stairway) mainly used as a means of access
• The electricity supply to the device, apparatus between a room and an exit from the building or
or switch fails. compartment.
• The fire alarm system, if any, is operated.
132 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N