O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
Materials and products
12.6 In a building with a storey 18m or more in height (see Diagram D6 in Appendix D) any insulation
product, fller material (such as the core materials of metal composite panels, sandwich panels and
window spandrel panels but not including gaskets, sealants and similar) etc. used in the construction
of an external wall should be class A2-s3, d2 or better (see Appendix B). This restriction does not
apply to masonry cavity wall construction which complies with Diagram 9.2 in Section 9. Where
regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over all the provisions in this paragraph.
12.7 In buildings that include a ‘residential’ purpose (purpose groups 1 and 2) with a storey 11m or more
in height (see Diagram D6 in Appendix D) any insulation product, fller material (such as the core
materials of metal composite panels, sandwich panels and window spandrel panels but not including
gaskets, sealants and similar) etc. used in the construction of an external wall should be class A2-s1, d0
or better (see Appendix B). This restriction does not apply to masonry cavity wall construction which
complies with Diagram 9.2 in Section 9. Where regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over all
the provisions in this paragraph.
12.8 Best practice guidance for green walls (also called living walls) can be found in Fire Performance of
Green Roofs and Walls, published by the Department for Communities and Local Government.
Where regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over all the provisions in this paragraph.
Cavities and cavity barriers
12.9 Cavity barriers should be provided in accordance with Section 9.
12.10 In the case of an external wall construction of a building which, by virtue of paragraph 9.10d (external
cladding system with a masonry or concrete inner leaf), is not subject to the provisions of Table 9.1,
the surfaces which face into cavities should also meet the provisions of Table 12.1 and provisions in
Section 9, but where regulation 7(2) applies, that regulation prevails over the guidance provided in
Table 12.1 and Section 9.
Balconies
12.11 In buildings that include a ‘residential’ purpose (purpose groups 1 and 2) with a storey 11m or more in
height (see Diagram D6 in Appendix D) balconies should meet either of the following conditions.
a. Only contain materials achieving class A1 or A2-s1, d0, except for any of the following.
i. Cavity trays when used between two leaves of masonry.
ii. Intumescent and fire-stopping materials where the inclusion of the materials is necessary to
meet the requirements of Part B of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations 2010.
iii. Membranes.
iv. Seals, gaskets, fxings, sealants and backer rods.
v. Thermal break materials where the inclusion of the materials is necessary to meet the
thermal bridging requirements of Part L of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations 2010.
vi. Any material achieving class A1f or A2f-s1 when it forms the top horizontal foor layer of a
balcony and is provided with an imperforate substrate under it which extends to the full size
of the class A1f or A2f-s1 material.
vii. Electrical installations.
viii. Fibre optic cables.
96 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N