O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Section 0: Approved Document B: Fire safety –
buildings other than dwellings
Summary
0.1 This approved document has been published in two volumes. Volume 1 deals solely with dwellings,
including blocks of flats, while Volume 2 deals with all other types of building covered by the
Building Regulations.
Arrangement of sections
0.2 Requirements B1–B5 of Schedule 1 to the Building Regulations are dealt with separately in one or
more sections. Each requirement is shown at the start of the relevant sections.
0.3 The provisions in this document have the following aims:
Requirement B1: When there is a fire, ensure both:
a. satisfactory means of sounding an alarm
b. satisfactory means of escape for people.
Requirement B2: Inhibit the spread of fire over internal linings of buildings.
Requirement B3: The building must be built such that all of the following are achieved in the event
of a fire:
a. the premature collapse of the building is avoided
b. sufficient fire separation is provided within buildings and between adjoining buildings
c. automatic fire suppression is provided where necessary
d. the unseen spread of fire and smoke in cavities is restricted.
Requirement B4: Restrict both:
a. the potential for fire to spread over external walls and roofs (including compliance with
regulations 6(4) and 7(2))
b. the spread of fire from one building to another.
Requirement B5: Ensure both:
a. satisfactory access for the fire service and its appliances
b. facilities in buildings to help firefighters save the lives of people in and around buildings.
Regulation 38: Provide fire safety information to building owners.
0.4 Guidance is given on each aspect separately, though many are closely interlinked. The document
should be considered as a whole. The relationship between different requirements and their
interdependency should be recognised. Particular attention should be given to the situation
where one part of the guidance is not fully followed as this could have a negative effect on other
provisions.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 1
O N L I N E V E R S I O N