O N L I N E V E R S I O N
The provisions in this approved document are considered to be of a reasonable standard for most
buildings. However, some people’s specific needs might not be addressed. In some situations, additional
measures may be needed to accommodate these needs. This should be done on a case-by-case basis.
Alternative approaches
0.9 The fire safety requirements of the Building Regulations will probably be satisfied by following the
relevant guidance in this approved document. However, approved documents provide guidance for
some common building situations and there may be alternative methods of complying with the Building
Regulations’ requirements.
If alternative methods are adopted, the overall level of safety should not be lower than the approved
document provides. It is the responsibility of those undertaking the work to demonstrate compliance.
If other standards or guidance documents are adopted, the relevant fire safety recommendations
in those publications should be followed in their entirety. However, in some circumstances it
may be necessary to use one publication to supplement another. Care must be taken when using
supplementary guidance to ensure that an integrated approach is used in any one building.
Guidance documents intended specifically for assessing fire safety in existing buildings often include
less onerous provisions than those for new buildings and are therefore unlikely to be appropriate for
building work that is controlled by the Building Regulations.
Buildings for industrial and commercial activities that present a special fire hazard, e.g. those that sell
fuels, may require additional fire precautions to those in this approved document.
Health care premises
0.10 Health care premises and the patients who use them are diverse. Patients using the premises require
different types of care to suit their specific needs. The choice of fire safety strategy depends on
both of the following.
a. How a building is designed, furnished, staffed and managed.
b. The needs of the patients.
The Department of Health (DoH) guidance documents on fire precautions in health care buildings,
Firecode, take account of the particular characteristics of these buildings and should be followed.
Firecode contains managerial and other fire safety provisions that are outside the scope of the
Building Regulations.
Unsupervised group homes
0.11 An unsupervised group home for not more than six mental health service users should be regarded
as having a purpose group of either of the following.
a. An existing house of one or two storeys for which the means of escape are provided in
accordance with DoH HTM 88 should be regarded as a purpose group 1(c) building.
b. A new building may be more appropriately regarded as being in purpose group 2(b).
Shopping complexes
0.12 Although the guidance in this document may be readily applied to individual shops, shopping
complexes present different escape problems. The design of units within a shopping complex should
be compatible with the fire strategy for the complex as a whole. A suitable approach is given in
Annex E of BS 9999.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 3
O N L I N E V E R S I O N