O N L I N E V E R S I O N
C F
Effective until 1 September 2029 – see 2029 amendment, page 171
a. A fusible link, but not if the doorset is in an opening provided as a means of escape unless it
complies with paragraph C7.
b. An automatic release mechanism activated by an automatic fire detection and alarm system.
c. A door closer delay device.
C7 Two fire doorsets may be fitted in the same opening if each door is capable of closing the opening,
so the total fire resistance is the sum of their individual resistances. If the opening is provided as a
means of escape, both fire doorsets should be self-closing.
If one fire doorset is capable of being easily opened by hand and has a minimum of 30 minutes’ fire
resistance, the other fire doorset should comply with both of the following.
a. Be fitted with an automatic self-closing device.
b. Be held open by a fusible link.
C8 Fire doorsets often do not provide any significant insulation. Unless providing both integrity
and insulation in accordance with Appendix B, Table B1, a maximum of 25% of the length of a
compartment wall should consist of door openings.
Where it is practicable to maintain a clear space on both sides of the doorway, the above
percentage may be greater.
C9 Rolling shutters should be capable of manual opening and closing for firefighting purposes (see
Section 17). Rolling shutters across a means of escape should only be released by a heat sensor, such
as a fusible link or electric heat detector, in the immediate vicinity of the door.
Unless a shutter is also intended to partially descend as part of a boundary to a smoke reservoir,
shutters across a means of escape should not be closed by smoke detectors or a fire alarm system.
C10 Unless shown to be satisfactory when tested as part of a fire doorset assembly, the essential
components of any hinge on which a fire door is hung should be made entirely from materials that
have a minimum melting point of 800°C.
C11 Except for doorsets listed in paragraph C12, all fire doorsets should be marked with one of the
following fire safety signs, complying with BS 5499-5, as appropriate.
a. To be kept closed when not in use – mark ‘Fire door keep shut’.
b. To be kept locked when not in use – mark ‘Fire door keep locked shut’.
c. Held open by an automatic release mechanism or free swing device – mark ‘Automatic fire door
keep clear’.
All fire doorsets should be marked on both sides, except fire doorsets to cupboards and service
ducts, which should be marked on the outside.
C12 The following fire doorsets are not required to comply with paragraph C11.
a. Doors to and within flats and dwellinghouses.
b. Bedroom doors in ‘residential (other)’ (purpose group 2(b)) premises.
c. Lift entrance/landing doors.
C13 The performance of some doorsets set out in Table C1 is linked to the minimum periods of fire
resistance for elements of structure given in Tables B1 and B2. Limitations on the use of uninsulated
glazing in fire doorsets are given in Table B3.
166 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N