O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B5
Section 18: Venting of heat and smoke from
basements
Provision of smoke outlets
18.1 Heat and smoke from basement fires vented via stairs can inhibit access for firefighting personnel.
This may be reduced by providing smoke outlets, or smoke vents, which allow heat and smoke
to escape from the basement levels to the open air. They can also be used by the fire and rescue
service to let cooler air into the basements (Diagram 18.1).
18.2 Each basement space should have one or more smoke outlets.
Where this is not practicable (for example, the plan area is deep and the amount of external wall is
restricted by adjoining buildings), the perimeter basement spaces may be vented, with other spaces
vented indirectly by opening connecting doors. This does not apply for place of special fire hazard
(see paragraph 18.7).
If a basement is compartmented, each compartment should have one or more smoke outlets, rather
than indirect venting.
A basement storey or compartment containing rooms with doors or windows does not need smoke
outlets.
18.3 Smoke outlets connecting directly to the open air should be provided from every basement storey,
except for any basement storey that has both of the following.
a. A maximum floor area of 200m2.
b. A floor a maximum of 3m below the adjacent ground level.
18.4 Strong rooms do not need to be provided with smoke outlets.
Natural smoke outlets
18.5 Smoke outlets should be both of the following.
a. Sited at high level in either the ceiling or wall of the space they serve.
b. Evenly distributed around the perimeter, to discharge to the open air.
18.6 The combined clear cross-sectional area of all smoke outlets should be a minimum of 1/40 of the
area of the floor of the storey they serve.
18.7 Separate outlets should be provided from places of special fire hazard.
18.8 If the smoke outlet terminates at a point that is not readily accessible, it should be kept
unobstructed and covered only with a class A1 grille or louvre.
18.9 If the smoke outlet terminates in a readily accessible position, it may be covered by a panel,
stallboard or pavement light that can be broken out or opened. The position of covered smoke
outlets should be suitably indicated.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 123
O N L I N E V E R S I O N