O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Installation and specification of fire dampers
10.17 Both fire dampers and fire and smoke dampers should be all of the following.
a. Sited within the thickness of the fire-separating elements.
b. Securely fixed.
c. Sited such that, in a fire, expansion of the ductwork would not push the fire damper through the
structure.
10.18 Access to the fire damper and its actuating mechanism should be provided for inspection, testing
and maintenance.
10.19 Fire dampers should meet both of the following conditions.
a. Conform to BS EN 15650.
b. Have a minimum E classification of 60 minutes or to match the integrity rating of the fire
resisting elements, whichever is higher.
10.20 Fire and smoke dampers should meet both of the following conditions.
a. Conform to BS EN 15650.
b. Have a minimum ES classification of 60 minutes or to match the integrity rating of the fire
resisting elements, whichever is higher.
10.21 Smoke detectors should be sited so as to prevent the spread of smoke as early as practicable by
activating the fire and smoke dampers. Smoke detectors and automatic release mechanisms used
to activate fire dampers and/or fire and smoke dampers should conform to BS EN 54-7 and
BS 5839-3 respectively.
Further information on fire dampers and/or fire and smoke dampers is given in the ASFP Grey Book.
Sleeping risks
10.22 Where the use of the building involves a sleeping risk, fire dampers or fire and smoke dampers
should be actuated by both of the following.
a. Smoke detector-controlled automatic release mechanisms.
b. Thermally actuated devices.
However, in a situation where both of the following are true:
a. all occupants of the building can be expected to make an unaided escape
b. an L1 fire detection and alarm system is installed in accordance with BS 5839-1
then both of the following exceptions may be made.
i. If, on the detection of smoke, the fire alarm system signals the immediate evacuation of all the
occupants of the building, then fire dampers and/or fire and smoke dampers do not need to be
actuated by smoke detectors.
ii. If the building is divided into fire compartments and the alarm system is arranged to signal the
immediate evacuation of the occupants of the fire compartment in which the fire has been
detected, then smoke detector-operated fire dampers or fire and smoke dampers need only be
provided where ductwork enters or leaves the fire compartment.
86 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N