O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
10.9 In a system that recirculates air, smoke detectors should be fitted in the extract ductwork before
both of the following.
a. The point where recirculated air is separated from air to be discharged to the outside.
b. Any filters or other air cleaning equipment.
When smoke is detected, detectors should do one of the following.
a. Cause the system to immediately shut down.
b. Switch the ventilation system from recirculating mode to extraction to divert smoke outside the
building.
10.10 Non-domestic kitchens, car parks and plant rooms should have separate and independent extraction
systems. Extracted air should not be recirculated.
10.11 Under fire conditions, ventilation and air-conditioning systems should be compatible with smoke
control systems and need to be considered in their respective design.
Ventilation ducts and flues passing through fire‑separating elements
General provisions
10.12 If air handling ducts pass through fire-separating elements, the fire performance of the elements
should be maintained using one or more of the following four methods. In most ductwork systems,
a combination of the four methods is best.
a. Method 1 – thermally activated fire dampers.
b. Method 2 – fire resisting enclosures.
c. Method 3 – protection using fire resisting ductwork.
d. Method 4 – automatically activated fire and smoke dampers triggered by smoke detectors.
10.13 Further information on fire resisting ductwork is given in the ASFP Blue Book.
Kitchen extract
10.14 Methods 1 and 4 should not be used for extract ductwork serving kitchens. The likely build-up of
grease within the duct can adversely affect dampers.
Ducts passing through protected escape routes
10.15 Method 1 should not be used for extract ductwork passing through the enclosures of protected
escape routes (Diagrams 10.2 and 10.3), as large volumes of smoke can pass thermal devices without
triggering them.
10.16 An ES classified fire and smoke damper which is activated by a suitable fire detection system
(method 4) may also be used for protected escape routes.
84 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N