O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Purpose groups
0.20 Building uses are classified within different purpose groups, which represent different levels of
hazard (see Table 0.1). A purpose group can apply to a whole building or to a compartment within
the building, and should relate to the main use of the building or compartment.
0.21 Where a building or compartment has more than one use, it is appropriate to assign each different
use to its own purpose group in the following situations.
a. If the ancillary use is a flat.
b. If both of the following apply.
i. The building or compartment has an area of more than 280m2.
ii. The ancillary use relates to an area that is more than one-fifth of the total floor area of the
building or compartment.
c. In ‘shop and commercial’ (purpose group 4) buildings or compartments, if the ancillary use is
storage and both of the following apply.
i. The building or compartment has an area of more than 280m2 .
ii. The storage area comprises more than one-third of the total floor area of the building or
compartment.
0.22 Where there are multiple main uses that are not ancillary to one another (for example, shops with
independent offices above), each use should be assigned to a purpose group in its own right. Where
there is doubt as to which purpose group is appropriate, the more onerous guidance should be
applied.
Table 0.1 Classification of purpose groups
Volume 1 purpose groups
Title Group Purpose for which the building or compartment of a building is intended to be used
Residential 1(a)(1) Flat.
(dwellings)
1(b)(2) Dwellinghouse that contains a habitable storey with a floor level a minimum of 4.5m
above ground level up to a maximum of 18m.(3)
1(c)(2)(4) Dwellinghouse that does not contain a habitable storey with a floor level a minimum
of 4.5m above ground level.
Volume 2 purpose groups
Residential 2(a) Hospital, home, school or other similar establishment, where people sleep on the
(institutional) premises. The building may be either of the following:
• Living accommodation for, or accommodation for the treatment, care or
maintenance of, either:
disabled people with a range of impairments including physical, sensory and
-
cognitive impairments, or mental health conditions
people under the age of 5 years.
-
• A place of lawful detention.
Residential 2(b) Hotel, boarding house, residential college, hall of residence, hostel or any other
(other) residential purpose not described above.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 5
O N L I N E V E R S I O N