O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B4
See para 13.13
Canopy arrangement Loading bay arrangement
2m min. Canopy 2m min.
Relevant Relevant Loading platform
boundary boundary
Building line Building line
Distance to Distance to
relevant boundary relevant boundary
measured from measured from
building line building line
NOTE: Projections from the building line, such as a canopy or a loading platform, can be ignored when
assessing separation distance. This does not apply where the canopy is enclosed by side walls.
Diagram 13.6 The effect of a canopy on separation distance
Roofs
13.15 Roofs with a pitch of more than 70 degrees to the horizontal should be assessed in accordance with
this section. Vertical parts of a pitched roof, such as dormer windows, should be included, only if
the slope of the roof exceeds 70 degrees.
It is a matter of judgement whether a continuous run of dormer windows that occupies most of
a steeply pitched roof should be treated as a wall rather than a roof.
Portal frames
13.16 Portal frames are often used in single storey industrial and commercial buildings where there may
be no need for fire resistance of the structure (requirement B3). However, where a portal framed
building is near a relevant boundary, the external wall near the boundary may need fire resistance
to restrict the spread of fire between buildings. It is generally accepted that a portal frame acts
as a single structural element because of the moment-resisting connections used, especially at
the column/rafter joints. Thus, in cases where the external wall of the building cannot be wholly
unprotected, the rafter members of the frame, as well as the column members, may need to be fire
protected. The design method for this is set out in SCI Publication P313.
NOTE: The recommendations in the SCI publication for designing the foundation to resist
overturning do not need to be followed if the building is fitted with a sprinkler system in
accordance with Appendix E.
NOTE: Normally, portal frames of reinforced concrete can support external walls requiring a similar
degree of fire resistance without specific provision at the base to resist overturning.
104 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N