O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Appendices: Information common to more than one requirement of Part B
0.5 Guidance on matters that refer to more than one section of this document can be found in the
following appendices.
Appendix A: Key terms
Appendix B: Performance of materials, products and structures
Appendix C: Fire doorsets
Appendix D: Methods of measurement
Appendix E: Sprinklers
Appendix F: Standards referred to
Appendix G: Documents referred to
Management of premises
0.6 The Building Regulations do not impose any requirements on the management of a building, but
do assume that it will be properly managed. This includes, for example, keeping protected escape
routes virtually ‘fire sterile’.
Appropriate fire safety design considers the way in which a building will be managed. Any reliance
on an unrealistic or unsustainable management regime cannot be considered to have met the
requirements of the regulations.
Once the building is in use, the management regime should be maintained and a suitable risk
assessment undertaken for any variation in that regime. Failure to take proper management
responsibility may result in the prosecution of an employer, building owner or occupier under
legislation such as the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005.
Property protection
0.7 The Building Regulations are intended to ensure a reasonable standard of life safety in a fire. The
protection of property, including the building itself, often requires additional measures. Insurers
usually set higher standards before accepting the insurance risk.
Many insurers use the RISCAuthority Design Guide for the Fire Protection of Buildings by the Fire
Protection Association (FPA) as a basis for providing guidance to the building designer on what
they require.
Further information on the protection of property can be obtained from the FPA website:
www.thefpa.co.uk.
Inclusive design
0.8 The fire safety aspects of the Building Regulations aim to achieve reasonable standards of health
and safety for people in and around buildings.
People, regardless of ability, age or gender, should be able to access buildings and use their
facilities. The fire safety measures incorporated into a building should take account of the needs of
everyone who may access the building, both as visitors and as people who live or work in it. It is not
appropriate, except in exceptional circumstances, to assume that certain groups of people will be
excluded from a building because of its use.
2 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N