O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B C
2029 amendment – effective from 2 September 2029
B22 Fire resistance is measured in minutes. This relates to time elapsed in a standard test and should not
be confused with real time.
B23 The fire resistance necessary for different circumstances is set out in the following tables.
a. Table B1 gives the specific requirements for each element of structure.
b. Table B2 sets out the minimum periods of fire resistance for elements of structure.
c. Table B3 sets out limitations on the use of uninsulated fire resisting glazed elements.
B24 This document uses the European classification system (REI) for fire resistance set out in BS EN
13501-2 to 4. Fire resistance is expressed as REI X, where X is the period of fire resistance in minutes
in terms of loadbearing capacity (R), integrity (E) and insulation (I). Products or systems cannot
typically assume a European class unless they have been tested and classified accordingly.
B25 Products or systems achieving the European classification (REI) should be specified wherever
possible. However, there may be some products or systems that have been assessed as being
capable of meeting a fire resistance performance classification. When assessed, products or systems
should follow the relevant test standards to indicate their fire resistance performance in terms of
loadbearing capacity, integrity and insulation based on the recommendations of paragraphs B1 to
B5. In those situations, the performance classifications given in Table B1 and Table B2 may be used.
Table B1 Specific provisions of the test for fire resistance of elements of structure, etc.
Part of building Minimum provisions when tested and classified Type of exposure
to the relevant European standard (minutes)(1)
or assessed following the recommendations of
paragraphs B1 to B5 (minutes)(2)
Loadbearing Integrity Insulation
capacity(3)
1. Structural frame, beam or column. See Table B2 Not applicable Not applicable Exposed faces
2. Loadbearing wall See Table B2 Not applicable Not applicable Each side
separately
(for a wall which is also described in
any of the following items, the more
onerous guidance should be applied).
3. Floors(4)
a. between a shop and flat above 60 min or 60 min or 60 min or From underside(5)
see Table B2 see Table B2 see Table B2
(whichever is (whichever is (whichever is
greater) greater) greater)
b. in upper storey of two storey 30 min 15 min 15 min From underside (5)
dwellinghouse (but not over garage
or basement)
c. any other floor – including See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 From underside (5)
compartment floors.
4. Roofs
a. any part forming an escape route 30 min 30 min 30 min From underside (5)
b. any roof that performs the function See Table B2 See Table B2 See Table B2 From underside (5)
of a floor.
156 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N