O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
See para 3.29
Configurations of stairs and external wall
Accommodation Accommodation
1800mm min. Fire resisting construction
of adjacent building enclosure
Fire resisting construction
1800mm 1800mm of protected stairway
Stair min. Stair min.
Non-fre resisting construction
Accommodation Accommodation
Configuration A Configuration B
Diagram 3.3 E xternal protection to protected stairways
External escape stairs
3.31 Where a storey or part of the building has more than one escape route available, some of the
escape routes may be via an external escape stair, provided the following conditions are met.
a. There is at least one internal escape stair from every part of each storey (excluding plant areas).
b. In the case of an ‘assembly and recreation’ (purpose group 5) building, the route is not intended for
use by the public.
c. In the case of a ‘residential (institutional)’ (purpose group 2(a)) building, the route serves only
office or residential staff accommodation.
3.32 Any external escape stair should meet all of the following conditions (Diagram 3.4).
a. Doors to the stair should be fire resisting (minimum E 30) and be fitted with a self-closing
device, except for a single exit door from the building to the top landing of a downward-leading
external stair, provided it is the only door onto the landing.
b. Fire resisting construction (minimum RE 30) is required for the building envelope within the
following zones, measured from the flights and landings of the external stair.
i. 1800mm above and horizontally.
ii. 9m vertically below.
iii. 1100mm above the top landing of the stair (except where the stair leads from basement to
ground level).
c. Fire resisting construction (minimum RE 30) should be provided for any part of the building
(including doors) within 1800mm of the escape route from the foot of the stair to a place of
safety. This does not apply if there are alternative escape route from the foot of the external
escape stair.
d. Stairs more than 6m in height should be protected from adverse weather. Protection should
prevent the build-up of snow or ice but does not require full enclosure.
38 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N