O N L I N E V E R S I O N
A
Rooflight A dome light, lantern light, skylight, *Specified attachment Includes any of the
ridge light, glazed barrel vault or other element to following.
admit daylight through a roof.
• A balcony attached to an external wall.
Room An enclosed space within a building that is
• A device for reducing heat gain within a
not used solely as a circulation space. The term
building by deflecting sunlight which is
includes not only conventional rooms, but also
attached to an external wall.
cupboards that are not fittings and large spaces
such as warehouses and auditoria. The term does • A solar panel attached to an external wall.
not include cavities such as ducts, ceiling cavities Storey Includes any of the following.
and roof spaces.
• Any gallery in an assembly building (purpose
School A place of education for children between group 5).
2 and 19 years old. The term includes nursery
• Any gallery in any other type of building if its
schools, primary schools and secondary schools as
area is more than half that of the space into
defined in the Education Act 1996.
which it projects.
Self-closing device A device that closes a door,
• A roof, unless it is accessible only for
when open at any angle, against a door frame.
maintenance and repair.
NOTE: If the door is in a cavity barrier, rising butt
NOTE: The building is regarded as a multi-storey
hinges (which are different from the self-closing
building if both of the following apply.
device mentioned above) are acceptable.
• There is more than one gallery.
Separated part (of a building) Part of a building
that is separated from another part of the same • The total aggregate area of all the galleries in
building by a compartment wall. The wall runs the one space is more than half the floor area of
full height of the part and is in one vertical plane. that space.
(See Appendix D, Diagram D5.)
Effective until 29 September 2026 –
Sheltered housing Includes two or more dwellings
see 2026 amendment, below
in the same building or on adjacent sites, designed
Storey exit A final exit, or a doorway that gives
and constructed as residential accommodation for
direct access into a protected stairway, firefighting
vulnerable or elderly people who receive, or will
lobby or external escape route.
receive, a support service.
NOTE: If an institutional building is planned to
Single storey building A building that consists of a
enable progressive horizontal evacuation, a door in
ground storey only. Basements are not counted as
a compartment wall is considered a storey exit for
storeys in a building (see Appendix D). A separated
the purposes of requirement B1.
part that consists of a ground storey only, with a
roof to which access is only provided for repair
or maintenance, may be treated as a single storey 2026 amendment – effective
building. from 30 September 2026
Site (of a building) The land occupied by the Storey exit A final exit, or a doorway that gives
building, up to the boundaries with land in other direct access into a protected stairway, evacuation
ownership. lift lobby within an evacuation shaft, firefighting
lobby or external escape route.
*Solar shading device A device attached to the
external surface of an external wall for reducing NOTE: If an institutional building is planned to
heat gain within a building by shading or enable progressive horizontal evacuation, a door in
deflecting sunlight. a compartment wall is considered a storey exit for
the purposes of requirement B1.
136 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N