O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Lighting of escape routes
5.25 All escape routes should have adequate artificial lighting. If the mains electricity power supply fails,
escape lighting should illuminate the routes listed in Table 5.1.
5.26 Escape stair lighting should be on a separate circuit from the electricity supply to any other part of
the escape route.
5.27 Escape lighting should conform to BS 5266-1.
Exit signs
5.28 Every doorway or other exit providing access to a means of escape, other than exits in ordinary use
(e.g. main entrances), should be distinctively and conspicuously marked by an exit sign in accordance
with BS ISO 3864-1 and BS 5499-4.
Advice on fire safety signs, including emergency escape signs, is given in the HSE publication Safety
Signs and Signals: Guidance on Regulations.
Some buildings may require additional signs to comply with other legislation.
Protected power circuits
5.29 To limit potential damage to cables in protected circuits, all of the following should apply.
a. Cables should be sufficiently robust.
b. Cable routes should be carefully selected and/or physically protected in areas where cables may
be exposed to damage.
c. Methods of cable support should be class A1 rated and offer at least the same integrity as the cable.
They should maintain circuit integrity and hold cables in place when exposed to fire.
5.30 A protected circuit to operate equipment during a fire should achieve all of the following.
a. Cables should achieve PH 30 classification when tested in accordance with BS EN 50200
(incorporating Annex E) or an equivalent standard.
b. It should only pass through parts of the building in which the fire risk is negligible.
c. It should be separate from any circuit provided for another purpose.
5.31 Guidance on cables for large and complex buildings is given in BS 5839-1, BS 5266-1 and BS 8519.
Lifts
Evacuation lifts
5.32 Generally, lifts should not be used when there is a fire in the building, unless their use forms part
of a management plan for evacuating people and the following conditions are met.
a. Lifts are appropriately sited and protected.
b. Lifts contain safety features to ensure they remain usable during a fire.
Guidance on the design and use of evacuation lifts is given in Annex G to BS 9999.
5.33 Where a firefighting lift is provided, it can be used to evacuate disabled people. Management plans
should describe how this would be managed, and what will happen when the fire and rescue service
arrives.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 51
O N L I N E V E R S I O N