O N L I N E V E R S I O N
E
Design of sprinkler systems
E3 Where required, sprinkler systems should be provided throughout the building or separated part,
unless acting as a compensatory feature to address a specific risk. They should be designed and
installed in accordance with the following.
a. For residential buildings, the requirements of BS 9251.
b. For non-residential buildings, or residential buildings outside the scope of BS 9251, the
requirements of BS EN 12845, including the relevant hazard classification together with additional
measures to improve system reliability and availability as described in Annex F of the standard.
NOTE: Any sprinkler system installed to satisfy the requirements of Part B of the Building
Regulations should be provided with additional measures to improve system reliability and
availability and is therefore to be regarded as a life safety system. However, there may be some
circumstances in which additional measures to improve system reliability and availability specified in
Annex F of BS EN 12845 are inappropriate or unnecessary.
E4 If the provisions in a building vary from those in this document, sprinkler protection can also
sometimes be used as a compensatory feature.
BS 9251 makes additional recommendations when sprinklers are proposed as compensatory features.
Water supplies and pumps
E5 For non-residential sprinkler systems designed and installed to BS EN 12845, water supplies should
consist of either of the following.
a. Two single water supplies complying with clause 9.6.1, independent of each other.
b. Two stored water supplies meeting all of the following conditions.
i. Gravity or suction tanks should satisfy all the requirements of clause 9.6.2(b), other than
capacity.
ii. Any pump arrangements should comply with clause 10.2.
iii. In addition to meeting the requirements for inflow, either of the following should apply.
• The capacity of each tank should be at least half the specified minimum water volume
of a single full capacity tank, appropriate to the hazard.
• One tank should be at least equivalent to half the specified water volume of a single full
capacity tank, and the other shall not be less than the minimum volume of a reduced
capacity tank (see clause 9.3.4) appropriate to the hazard.
The total capacity of the water supply in (iii), including any inflow for a reduced capacity
tank, should be at least that of a single full holding capacity tank that complies with Table 9,
Table 10 or clause 9.3.2.3, as appropriate to the hazard and pipework design.
E6 For the systems described in paragraph E5, both of the following apply if pumps are used to draw
water from two tanks.
a. Each pump should be able to draw water from either tank.
b. Any one pump, or either tank, should be able to be isolated.
The sprinkler water supplies should not be used as connections for other services or other fixed
firefighting systems.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 183
O N L I N E V E R S I O N