O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B2
c. The underside of a gallery.
d. The underside of a roof exposed to the room below.
6.6 For the purposes of this requirement, a ceiling does not include any of the following.
a. Trap doors and their frames.
b. The frames of windows or rooflights and frames in which glazing is fitted.
c. Architraves, cover moulds, picture rails, exposed beams and similar narrow members.
Fire resisting ceilings
6.7 The need for cavity barriers in concealed floor or roof spaces can be reduced by installing a fire
resisting ceiling (minimum EI 30) below the cavity, complying with Diagram 9.3.
Rooflights
6.8 Rooflights should meet the following classifications, according to material. No guidance for
European fire test performance is currently available, because there is no generally accepted test and
classification procedure.
a. Non-plastic rooflights should meet the relevant classification in Table 6.1.
b. Plastic rooflights, if the limitations in Table 6.2 and Table 14.2 are observed, should be a minimum
class D-s3, d2 rating. Otherwise they should meet the relevant classification in
Table 6.1.
Special applications
6.9 Any flexible membrane covering a structure, other than an air-supported structure, should comply
with Appendix A of BS 7157.
6.10 Guidance on the use of PTFE-based materials for tension-membrane roofs and structures is given in
BRE report BR 274.
Fire behaviour of insulating core panels used internally
6.11 Insulating core panels consist of an inner core of insulation sandwiched between, and bonded to, a
membrane, such as galvanised steel or aluminium.
Where they are used internally they can present particular problems with regard to fire spread, and
should meet all of the following conditions.
a. Panels should be sealed to prevent exposure of the core to a fire. This includes at joints and
where services penetrate the panel.
b. In high fire risk areas, such as kitchens, places of special fire hazard, or in proximity to where hot
works occur, only class A1 cored panels should be used.
c. Fixing systems for all panels should be designed to take account of the potential for the panel
to delaminate. For instance, where panels are used to form a suspended ceiling, the fixing should
pass through the panel and support it from the lower face.
56 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N