O N L I N E V E R S I O N
Those responsible for building work include agents, designers, builders, installers and the building
owner. For further information, see Chapter 7 in Volume 1 and paragraphs A26, B2 and F2 in Volume 2
of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
The Building Regulations can be contravened by not following the correct procedures or not meeting
the technical performance requirements. If the building owner or those responsible for the works
contravene the Building Regulations, the local authority may prosecute them in the magistrates’ court.
For further information on enforcement and sanctions in the existing system, see Chapter B in Volume
2 of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
What do the Building Regulations cover?
‘Building work’ is a legal term for work covered by the Building Regulations. Where a building is not
exempt, the Building Regulations apply to all types of building work as defined in regulation 3 of the
Building Regulations. For further information, what constitutes building work is covered in Chapter A,
Volume 2 of the Manual to the Building Regulations.
The Building Regulations contain sections dealing with definitions, procedures and the expected
technical performance of building work. For example, the Building Regulations:
a. defne what types of building, plumbing and heating work are classed as building work in
regulation 3 (for further information see paragraphs A14 to A16 in Volume 2 of the Manual to the
Building Regulations).
b. specify types of building that are exempt from the Building Regulations (for further information
see Table A1 and paragraph A11 in Volume 2 of the Manual to the Building Regulations).
c. set out the notifcation procedures to follow when undertaking building work (for further
information see Figure 2.1 in Volume 1 of the Manual to the Building Regulations).
d. set out the technical requirements (see Table 7.1 in Volume 1 of the Manual to the Building
Regulations) with which the individual aspects of building design and construction must comply
in the interests of the health and safety of building users, of energy efciency (for further
information see paragraphs A12(d)–(f), A14(f)–(h), A22, A23, B2(c) and F24 in Volume 2 of the
Manual to the Building Regulations), and of access to and use of buildings.
e. set out the standards for building materials and workmanship in carrying out building work
(for further information see Chapter 7 in Volume 1, and paragraphs F8 to F11 in Volume 2 of the
Manual to the Building Regulations).
When must a building control body be notified?
It is often necessary to notify a building control body of planned building work. To help ensure that
work complies with the Building Regulations, those responsible for building work may need to use one
of the two types of building control body listed below:
a. a local authority building control body
b. a private sector building control service.
ii Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N