O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
Section 11: Special provisions for car parks
11.1 Car parks call for different measures to restrict fire spread within buildings for the following reasons.
a. The fire load is well defined.
b. The probability of fire spreading from one storey to another in a well ventilated car park is low.
Guidance is therefore given for three ventilation scenarios.
Open‑sided car parks
Natural ventilation
11.2 For the purposes of assessing fire resistance, a building, compartment or separated part containing a
car park may be regarded as open-sided when it complies with all of the following.
a. There are no basement storeys.
b. Each storey is naturally ventilated by permanent openings at each car parking level. The
aggregate vent area is a minimum of 1/20 of that level’s floor area, at least half of which is
provided equally by two opposite walls (1/80 on each side). The remaining free area can be
distributed wherever possible.
c. Where one element of structure supports, carries or stabilises another, the fire resistance of
the supporting element at least matches the minimum period of fire resistance for the other
element.
d. In mixed use buildings, the fire resistance of any element that supports, carries or stabilises an
element in the other part of the building should at least match the minimum period of fire
resistance for the other element.
e. All materials used in the construction should be class A1 rated, except for the following.
i. Any surface finish applied to a floor or roof of the car park (or within any building,
compartment or separated part adjoining the structure enclosing it), if the finish meets
requirements B2 and B4.
ii. Any fire doorset.
iii. Any attendant’s kiosk not exceeding 15m2 in area.
iv. Any shop mobility facility.
Car parks that are not open‑sided
11.3 For car parks that do not have the ventilation set out in paragraph 11.2, the required fire resistance
is given in Appendix B, Table B2. Ventilation should be either natural or mechanical. See Approved
Document F for additional guidance on ventilation of car parks.
Natural ventilation
11.4 Each storey should be ventilated by permanent openings at each car parking level. The openings can
be at ceiling level. The aggregate free vent area should be a minimum of 1/40 of that level’s floor
area, at least half of which should be provided equally by two opposite walls (1/160 on each side).
The remaining free area can be distributed wherever possible.
Building Regulations 2010 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition 89
O N L I N E V E R S I O N