O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B1
Fire protection of lift installations
5.34 Lift wells should comply with one of the following conditions.
a. Be sited within the enclosures of a protected stairway.
b. Be enclosed with fire resisting construction (minimum REI 30) when in a position that might
prejudice the means of escape.
5.35 A lift well connecting different compartments should form a protected shaft (see Section 8).
5.36 Lifts that rise within a large volume such as a mall or atrium and do not have a conventional well,
such as wall-climber or feature lifts, may be at risk if they run through a smoke reservoir. Care should
be taken to maintain the integrity of the smoke reservoir and protect people in the lift.
5.37 In buildings designed for phased evacuation or progressive horizontal evacuation, if the lift well is
not within the enclosures of a protected stairway, its entrance should be separated at every storey
by a protected lobby (minimum REI 30).
5.38 In basements and enclosed car parks, the lift should be within the enclosure of a protected
stairway. Otherwise, the lift should be approached only via a protected lobby or protected corridor
(minimum REI 30).
5.39 If a lift delivers into a protected corridor or protected lobby serving sleeping accommodation and
also serves a storey containing a high fire risk (such as a kitchen, communal areas, stores, etc.) then
the lift should be separated from the high fire risk area(s) by a protected lobby or protected corridor
(minimum REI 30).
5.40 A lift shaft serving storeys above ground level should not serve any basement if either of the
following applies.
a. There is only one escape stair serving storeys above ground level and smoke from a basement
fire would adversely affect escape routes in the upper storeys.
b. The lift shaft is within the enclosure to an escape stair that terminates at ground level.
5.41 Lift machine rooms should be sited over the lift well where possible. Where buildings or part of a
building with only one stairway make this arrangement impractical, the lift machine room should be
sited outside the protected stairway.
Refuse chutes and storage
5.42 Refuse storage chambers, refuse chutes and refuse hoppers should be sited and constructed in
accordance with BS 5906.
5.43 Refuse chutes and rooms for storing refuse should meet both of the following conditions.
a. Be separated from other parts of the building by fire resisting construction (minimum REI 30
in buildings with a top storey up to 5m above ground level; otherwise REI 60).
b. Not be situated within a protected stairway or protected lobby.
5.44 The approach to rooms containing refuse chutes or for storing refuse should comply with one
of the following conditions.
a. Be directly from the open air.
b. Be through a protected lobby with a minimum 0.2m2 of permanent ventilation.
5.45 Access openings to refuse storage chambers should not be sited next to escape routes or
final exits.
52 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N