O N L I N E V E R S I O N
B3
i. the cavity is less than 1000mm in height
ii. the cavity is not normally accessible by people, unless there are openings in the floor such
that it is possible for materials to accumulate in the cavity (in which case cavity barriers
should be provided and access should be provided to the cavity for cleaning).
9.11 If a single room with a ceiling cavity or underfloor cavity exceeds the dimensions in Table 9.1, cavity
barriers need only be provided on the line of the enclosing walls/partitions of that room, if both of
the following apply.
a. The cavity barriers are a maximum of 40m apart.
b. The surface of the material/product exposed in the cavity is class C-s3, d2 or better.
9.12 If the cavity is over an undivided area that exceeds 40m in any direction, there is no limit to its size
if all of the following conditions are met.
a. Together, the room and cavity form a compartment separated from the rest of the building.
b. Both of the following apply.
i. The building is fitted with an automatic fire detection and alarm system that conforms
to BS 5839-1.
ii. Detectors are only required in the cavity to satisfy BS 5839-1.
c. If the cavity is used as a plenum then the recommendations for recirculating air distribution
systems in Section 32 of BS 9999 are followed.
d. Both of the following apply.
i. The exposed surface of the material/product used in the construction of the cavity is
class B-s3, d2 or better.
ii. The supports and fixings in the cavity are class A1.
e. Any pipe insulation system should achieve class C-s3, d2 rating or better.
f. Any electrical wiring in the cavity is laid in metal trays or metal conduit.
g. Other than those in (d)–(f), any materials are class A2-s3, d2 rated or better.
Construction and fixings for cavity barriers
9.13 Cavity barriers, tested from each side separately, should provide a minimum of both of the
following:
a. 30 minutes’ integrity (E 30)
b. 15 minutes’ insulation (I 15).
They may be formed by a construction provided for another purpose if it achieves the same
performance.
9.14 Cavity barriers in a stud wall or partition, or provided around openings, may be formed of any of
the following.
a. Steel, a minimum of 0.5mm thick.
b. Timber, a minimum of 38mm thick.
c. Polythene-sleeved mineral wool, or mineral wool slab, under compression when installed in
the cavity.
80 Approved Document B Volume 2, 2019 edition Building Regulations 2010
O N L I N E V E R S I O N